Thursday, Dec. 31, 1908
New Willard, Washington.
Heavenly weather!
Packed . Went again to the Smithsonian. We were  petrified  to behold in the Ethnological section, beside Papuan sacrificial gongs and other relics of savage religions, an erection  labelled  “Catholic Altar. This altar formerly belonged to a Roman Catholic church in Hildesheim. It is constructed in a mixture of Gothic, Renaissance and Rococo styles, and probably dates from the XVII century. The lower painting represents the Assumption of the Virgin Mary; the upper, St. John the Evangelist, holding the chalice of the Lord’s Supper. No. 207743.”
Near it was a glass case with a partition, on one side of which hung the vestments of Dancing Dervishes, and on the other side the habits of Dominican, Franciscan and Carthusian Friars !!!
Nellie Hale and her brother, the teacher at Union College, Schenectady, lunched with us. 
We called on the Lees, Converses, Lodges and Stickneys.
Dined alone. 
[0389-0392]
Memoranda 
Achille Fassari’s  account of Garibaldi’s  marriages, May 1908
Garibaldi’s marriage to La Raimondi. First a beautiful young woman on a spirited horse, having dashed through the Austrian lines, rides up to 6 and gives him valuable information about the Austrians and disappears. He acts on the information, finds it accurate, ____ the battle of.
Received a guest by Conte Raimondi at his beautiful villa on Lake of Como near Cadenabbia.
Who was Raimondi? A nobleman who fled to London to escape his creditors and then met an Italian woman whose husband had been unfortunate in the army and who was singing for money in the cafés. With this lady, la Signora Giannone, he returned to Italy where he unexpectedly inherited a large property, and passed her off as the Contessa.
Raimondi was so excited and ____ over the hero and the victory that in proposing Garibaldi’s health he laid everything he had at his feet. “I will give him my daughter!” he said. Tremendous excitement. The daughter appeared – heroine of episode related above. G. nowise inclined to marry her, nor she him, for she had a love 