successful politicians, successful Bishops even.But the American boy’s tutor, who has come to this pension, is an honest boy, who has taken on none of the Oxford arrogance, and who has not been successfully trained to think himself as an Oxford man equal to anything. He has left Oxford positively, with the intellectual outfit of an infant. He looks upon all “great men” (Englishmen) as a little child looks upon its grown up relations. I remember well the battles I used to have with my little cousins, each one of us contending that my mother, and my way of being brought up was the best in the world. So he left Oxford thinking that Dr Fairbairn, the principal of Mansfield College, was the greatest man in the world, Robert Browning the one poet and Henry Jones (author of “The philosophical   – or rather intellectual adrift-ness, one keeps coming across in English people! They seem so uneducated, so little alive, so clinging to the one intellectual straw they have got hold of, that when you upset their hobby, or take away their straw, they cry out, as if they are drowning. “O what shall I do? What can I catch hold of?” They often leave Oxford as helpless, intellectually, as children, if they are honest people. Of course a great many get so well “trained” there that the last intellectual word is said for them, and they become successful lawyers, [171] successful politicians, successful Bishops even.But the American boy’s tutor, who has come to this pension, is an honest boy, who has taken on none of the Oxford arrogance, and who has not been successfully trained to think himself as an Oxford man equal to anything. He has left Oxford positively, with the intellectual outfit of an infant. He looks upon all “great men” (Englishmen) as a little child looks upon its grown up relations. I remember well the battles I used to have with my little cousins, each one of us contending that my mother, and my way of being brought up was the best in the world. So he left Oxford thinking that Dr Fairbairn, the principal of Mansfield College, was the greatest man in the world, Robert Browning the one poet and Henry Jones (author of “The philosophical 