feeling about it, which makes me at times very unhappy. He cannot blame me for having had hopes that he would stick to this. He is failing to justify my hopes, without convincing me that I am wrong. That is miserable - it is sometimes in my mind when I am happiest - the feeling that our position is so insecure and that he will not help me to make it more secure. Of course it would be thousand times easier for me to demand money to carry out all my schemes with him, if I could point to a finished work which was the result of our being together. But if all I have to show for my winter with him is a child’s story, which I could have written as well at home. I know father, and mother, too, will put more difficulties in my way, than they would if I said, “We have done this”, “we are going to continue working. We need to be together for our work.” People always go by what you can show, not by what you are in yourself. Besides, they know too little to appreciate what I may have learned - B. knows all this as well as I, and he won’t help me, simply because it involves sacrifice of time on his part. I am quite sick of asking him to do it. Sometimes I think I will throw it all into the fire. But I hate not to leave the chance open to him -   giving them.I feel stupid, as if I could not exactly reach the bottom of the feeling I have about this. But I have a strong [237] feeling about it, which makes me at times very unhappy. He cannot blame me for having had hopes that he would stick to this. He is failing to justify my hopes, without convincing me that I am wrong. That is miserable - it is sometimes in my mind when I am happiest - the feeling that our position is so insecure and that he will not help me to make it more secure. Of course it would be thousand times easier for me to demand money to carry out all my schemes with him, if I could point to a finished work which was the result of our being together. But if all I have to show for my winter with him is a child’s story, which I could have written as well at home. I know father, and mother, too, will put more difficulties in my way, than they would if I said, “We have done this”, “we are going to continue working. We need to be together for our work.” People always go by what you can show, not by what you are in yourself. Besides, they know too little to appreciate what I may have learned - B. knows all this as well as I, and he won’t help me, simply because it involves sacrifice of time on his part. I am quite sick of asking him to do it. Sometimes I think I will throw it all into the fire. But I hate not to leave the chance open to him - 