to the Pitti. The latter he enjoyed very much, but he thought the Montebello didn’t care much for anything but the human interest in portraits. She gave him this mystic translation of “tactile values “i-”. 
I think she and Placci mount each other’s heads a good deal over things they don’t understand. At 5 Bernhard, Miss Blood and I gathered at Placci’s and heard him play a Mozart duet with Buonamici. Then the latter began to play - but  divinely ! He played Scarlatti, and then half a dozen preludes of Chopin, some of them several times over. It was wonderful! I never enjoyed music more intimately. To make a delightful end to such an evening, I read Maeterlinck’s “ Aglavaine et Sélysette ”, which is one of the most suggestive and mood-compelling books I have ever read. 
[0024/0026]
Thursday, Nov. 12 [written: 11]. 1896, Fiesole
I raged about Florence, trying to find paper to mount our photographs. We had a nice talk in the evening. 
Friday, Nov. 13 [written: 12]. 1896
Still raging about for paper. I had my first music lesson from Buonamici, he is so dear and kind, he made it pass off very well. I came up in the 4 o’clock tram and found Bernhard showing Verrocchio photographs to the Countess Rasponi, and Mr. Morgan spoiling the fun. They all came over to tea. The Rasponi uttered some art theories which sounded like Paget-cum-Pasolini prescriptions. Placci came to dinner. He played us some Chopin and then we fell to on the subject of “Composition” in painting and music. We tried to define  pattern  as apart from 
[0025/0027]
 composition,  but I don’t think we succeeded very well. Finally, Placci in a burst of good-humour told us the famous Thomson-Paget “secret of aesthetics”. The discovery, like Newton’s apple, Watts’ tea-pot, etc., came by accident. A plasterer happened to be at work in the Capitol when Kit was looking at a certain statue there. She noticed that she enjoyed looking at it more while the plasterer was tapping than when he was not. The tapping heightened her enjoyment. Hence the way to enjoy statues and pictures was to tap while you were looking - to tap rhythmically. From this earth-shaking discovery they went on to augment the rhythmical tapping by a tune, and they soon came to the conclusion 
[0026 18]
that every picture had its own tune, the humming of which, to the accompaniment of taps, would enable you to really enjoy and appreciate it. With this bee in their bonnets they revisited the galleries and found the tunes for their favourite pictures. Unfortunately, Miss Thomson being thoroughly unmusical and Miss Paget very limited in her acquaintance with tunes, most of the pictures sang to Gluck and Mozart. 
And this they talked of for nearly a year with bated breath as a “great discovery”, and pitied poor us because we were still stumbling in outer darkness. But it is too funny. I can hardly laugh. 
Saturday Nov. 14.96. Fiesole
It occurred to me today that their famous idea was like getting enjoyment from literature by eating sweets while 
[0029 19]
reading. Bernhard suggested music, and we concocted the following telegram to Placci – “ Secret of music enjoyment discovered! Eat sweets while listening .”
I continued my enraging search for paper and Bernhard finished his introduction to the “Central Italians”, which I read when I got back. I thought it very,  very  good. It is about visual images and their influence on so-called taste. 
Mr. Blaydes came to spend the evening with him, and I practised. I have laughed all day over the “great discovery!”
Sunday Nov. 15. 1896.
It rained, as it has done  almost every day  since the middle of August, and we spent our time working and reading. 
[0030 20]
Monday Nov. 16. 1896. Villa Rosa Fiesole
I went down for Maud Cruttwell and we exasperated ourselves trying to do a little shopping. Florentine shopkeepers always seem perfectly delighted when they haven’t the thing you ask for. They are quite as bad as the old Scotch lady who said in reply to a request to sell a certain thing, “We don’t keep that any more. It was no use. As soon as we got some it was bought at once.” We had a quiet pleasant evening. 
Tuesday Nov. 17.96.
At work all day on the photos with Maud, who has come for a fortnight to do the business. (She is to receive £10.) It was rather amusing, and would have been pleasant if Bernhard had not been cross. I felt for him, for he was nervous with being shut up in the house with rain, but all the same I had to “deal with” him, for crossness is one of the most sordid conceivable members of a family - and we are trying not to be sordid. He was very nice about it. In the evening we read John Robertson’s essay on Shakspere [ sic ] and Montaigne. 