Diary 
[Aug. 7- Oct. 24, 1891:  Mary and Bernhard travel together from Antwerp to Venice]
x 〈Friday,〉 August 7, 1891, Antwerp 
Discussed difference between Belgians and Hollanders. Is it due to the hold of the Catholic Church in Belgium? 
Read L’Intruse by Maeterlingk,
 [sic] and compared it with Mrs. Augusta Webster’s Auspicious Day.
 
x 〈Saturday,〉 August 8, 1891, The Hague 
Read Vol. V of Journal de J. Goncourt
 at breakfast. 
Went to Musée and saw Titian and Rubens and Flemings. Sketched ears. 
After lunch went to the Cathedral to see Rubens and to S. Jacques, where there is a finer Rubens. Sacristan most grumpy, pulled curtain over pictures and found it incredible that anyone should [0076] want to look at a picture a whole quarter of an hour. Marched uneasily up and down asking, “Est-ce fini?” 
Read Baedeker in train. Hist〈ory of〉 Holland, Rise of Flemish and Dutch art. 
Sunday, August 9, 1891, The Hague 
Went to Baron Steengracht’s collection. Saw Rembrandt’s xx Bathsheba. Very large Jan Steen (family group) large portrait of a boy by Mersu. Finest A. Brauwer, drinking scene with portraits of himself, Franz Hals, etc. 
Afternoon went to Museum. Saw Rembrandt’s Presentation in Temple. 
xxx Vanmeer [sic] von Delft, water and houses. 
Paul Potter, Bull. This is a wonderful picture, painted to be the exact texture of the skin of the different animals. [0077] A paradox in paint, for, although it is exactly like, the effect is not al all as we see it. P.P. died before 30. Interesting speculation as to what he might have become, with this wonderful skill with the brush. 
Saw Italian pictures. 
Monday, August 10, 1891, s’Gravenhage 
Went to Museum. Sketched Sodoma. Saw other pictures, especially Van Meer van Delft. 
Went to Leyden. Walked about the town. Saw, after infinite difficulty, about a dozen sketch-books of Hokusai.
Bought Motley’s Dutch Republic
 and read introduction. 
Dined at the restaurant Van Pijl. 4 francs. Very good. 
Took notes and discussed Motley in evening. 
Read La Princesse Maleine by Maeterlinck of Bruxelles.
 
