Monday, August 17, 1891 〈Berlin〉
Went to the gallery 〈in Brunswick〉 in the forenoon, and found that a hail-storm a month ago had smashed the glass-roofs of the large halls, and that the pictures in them therefore were invisible. But we told the custodian we must see them even in the dark. He took us on tiptoe to the Palma, and left us at our request. 
As we were going out we bumped against two officials. Mutual surprise. They tried to be indignant, then assured us we had risked our lives, because glass was still falling from the roofs. Told them they must know well that when you [0089] come on purpose to see pictures you did not mind risking your life. That disarmed them, and the younger was liebenswürdig enough to offer to take us through those same halls with a lantern. 
In this way we had a glimpse of two pictures that change one’s idea of their painter. One is a portrait by Rubens painted with almost the readiness, and sweat of Frans Hals. Furthermore, it is the only portrait by Rubens I have seen in which Rubens sinks himself. The other picture is Stien’s Wedding-Contract. The bride [0090] and bride groom are charming beyond words.
Other things never to be forgotten are the Vermeer and some of the Rembrandts.
The Vermeer had that wonderful purity and tenderness of colouring which makes his work seem so much like the finest porcelain. In this as in the other pictures, the same light blue, the same tints of sage and pea green, and the same effects of atmosphere.
The most fascinating Rembrandt is the landscape. One would like to know where he got such a landscape. It is a scene for some strange mysterious tale in Stevenson’s best fashion. Scarcely [0091] less impressive is Christ and the Magdalen, neatly and clearly done, but treated in a wonderfully, religious way. The figure of Christ at any rate is full of that humility, and sense of wonder at his own self that Rembrandt more than once gives to the face and form of Jesus. The Magdalen is a Dutch woman of Rembrandt’s own time. Very interesting also are two portraits of Rembrandt’s earliest days, one of Hugo Grotius, a clean, fresh bit of painting, and one of Grotius’ wife. Her portrait we should scarcely have known for [0092] a Rembrandt. It is so firm and free from effects of atmosphere. 
Finally I shall scarcely forget a little landscape by the elder Vermeer, a thing severe, quiet, with plenty of sky and spaciousness.
In the afternoon we were in the fast express to Berlin, reading Motley and studying German as we rushed thro’ the pretty towns, or past woods of white birch.
[0087-0088: small notes written by Bernhard  using a fountain pen with an Italic nib] 
[recto 0087]
Some people answer as if they were shutting the door with a bang.
Mothers …
[verso 0088]
Primavera. Venus-type of Judith and Fortezza, keys left hand as in latter. Mercury and all flesh tints as in Sebastiano of Berlin.
Drapery of Venus breasts and sleeves as in Judith.
With this goes well the Madonna with six saints; in the hands are same. 
Michael and John Polagologos.
 
Feminine saint of type of 3 dancing women. This is on way to coronation in the landscape as in Venus of ____.
[in left margin] Spirit same ____ as child in Madonna with 6 saints. 
[from here on in Mary’s hand]
