Wednesday, August 19, 1891, 〈Berlin〉
Went early to gallery and went carefully through the Venetian School from Gentile da Fabriano and Antonio Vivarini to Tiepolo. Also the Veronese school. 
Thursday, August 20, 1891, Berlin
Florentine School at the gallery. 
As we were looking at a fake “Pisanello”, an American young man asked why it was fake. We were too busy to stop, but we asked him to lunch. H〈e〉 turned out to be from New Brunswick, and his name was Van Dyck, a circumstance which naturally led him to take [0094] an interest in pictures!! He had rather good taste, but he was oppressed with profound scepticism. He said that the pictures were all so repainted that the ascriptions were a mere matter of guess-work. In fine, he turned out to be the sort of person who knows too much to want to learn, and too little to teach, or even to sympathize.
Went to the Nationalgallerei.
Herr Klinsmann dined with us and we walked in the Thiergarten. We discussed the Jews in Berlin. 
Friday, August 21, 1891, Berlin
Ferrarese and Milanese Schools at the Gallery. Went to museum upstairs and [0095] Tschudi’s study. 
Herr Klinsmann took us to the International Exhibition, where there were paintings by every school but the only good one, the French. Böcklin had an absurd ‘Susanna and the Elders’, as modern old ___ Jews. Berenson said he would like to see the Bible illustrated by Böcklin. The Spanish painters struck me as delightful, particularly Villegas and Beuliure y Gil.
Came from Berlin to Dresden. 
Motley and German. 
<Dresden>
Saturday, August 22, 1891, Hotel Rheinischerhof, Dresden
Went to gallery —————— !! 
Met Walter [0096] Cope, Signor Costa and the Hon. Mrs. Bontine there. Saw Belottos with Costa.
Read Motley and de Lisle Adam in the afternoon. 
Called on “Michael Field” and found them gone to the hospital, Miss Cooper having the Scarlet Fever. Poor things!
Went to Das Rheingold in the evening, and enjoyed it very much. 
 Sunday, August 23, 1891, Dresden 
Gallery in morning with Costa. 
Read Bonhomet Triboulet by Villiers de Lisle Adam.
 
x Restaurant Gneist [added in blue ink]
 Monday, August 24, 1891, Dresden 
Gallery in morning. 
Called on Michael Fields at Stadt Krankenhaus [0097] where Miss Cooper is ill with Scarlet Fever. 
Went to Die Walkyrie in evening. 
 Tuesday, August 25, 1891, Dresden 
Gallery with Costa in morning. 
Called on Michael Field in afternoon.
Concert on Terrace in evening. 
Motley and Villiers de Lisle Adam Histoires insolites.
 
Wednesday, August 26, 1891, Dresden 
Gallery with Costa. 
Met Florence Dike’s friend, Lizzie Johnston and her family. 
Discussed “Botticelli” Madonna. Costa thinks it genuine, B.B. not. 
Went to hear Siegfried in evening. 
