Monday, September 7, 1891, Hotel Roth, Munich
The Gallery in the morning. Florentine, Umbrian and Roman Schools. 
Looked at photographs at Hanfstaingl’s. 
Visited the Schack gallery and enjoyed Leubach’s admirable copy of Titian’s Charles V on horseback. Saw some Böcklins. 
Went to the Glyptoteck. 
B. enjoyed the Augustan Marbles more than even before. He found them delightful as sincere studies in anatomy. 
Went to the International Exhibition and saw the French pictures, three inexpressibly delightful Monets: a lake at sunset, the sea and cliffs, painted in ’82, and fields in summer. 
Five Besnards, of which two were marvels of poetry and light: a girl standing by the sea at sunset, and a naked [0113] boy sitting by a blue mountain lake. 
3 Dagnau-Bouverets, A Madonna and Child, a study in the reflection of green leaves and sunlight upon a white dress, a small landscape and a woman sitting in the open air. 
1 Whistler, painted in ’66! ships and sea in twilight.
3 Meissoniers, painted in ‘’55
A Detaille almost as good.
2 Bonnats, the Samson of this year’s Salon, and an Italian child.
5 Manets.
Several of Millets, Troyon, Daubigny, Corot, Diaz, Hamel Jacques, etc. 
Some deliciously decorative Ribarz, Dagnaux, Breslau, Ribot, Hagborg, Meunier, Stéveres, Israels, Mesdag, Roederstein, Agache, Dinet, Blanche, L’Hermitte, Courtois, Gervex, Puvis de Chavannes, Dupré, and many others were represented. 
We [0114] enjoyed Monet, Manet, and Besnard most of all. We also looked at Böcklin and his school. It was worth coming to Munich if to see nothing but the Monets. 
After the Exhibition, we went back to Haufstängl’s and bought some photographs. 
Then came back, and while I read Faust, B. wrote a few pages about the Augustan marbles, which I criticised savagely before going to dinner. 
Tuesday, September 〈8〉 [9], 1891, Munich – Verona
Milanese and Ferrarese Schools in the Gallery in the morning. 
B. lunched with Mr. Marshall. 
I read Charles V
 and packed. 
Went to the International Exhibition in the afternoon. On the whole, we liked best the Besnard sunset over the water. 
