Tuesday, October 6, 1891, Venice 
Went to S. Moisè, Santa Maria Zobenigo, S. Stefano, S. Vitale, Gesuati, S. Trovaso, S. Sebastiano. 
In the afternoon to St. Mark’s and then out to the Lido where I had a swim.
Wednesday, October 7, 1891, Venice
Spent the morning at the Accademia, and the afternoon in S. Zaccharia and Giovanni e Paolo. 
Went to the Piazza in the evening and heard the band play Carmen. 
Thursday, October 8, 1891, Venice
Met Costa at S. Pantaleone and after studying the Antonio di Murano there went in to the Carmine. There in the absence of the sacristan, I cleaned the lower part of the Lotto from the dust and [0132: an X in blue crayon in upper left corner] cobweb and candle-grease of ages. The sacristan appeared enraged when he caught me. He said the picture belonged to the Academy and no one was allowed to touch it. Presently, to my intense surprise, he invited us to come tomorrow and wash it, saying he would supply the water and sponge and ladder. 
We went on to S. Barnabà and S. Trovaso and then came back to lunch. 
After lunch we went to S. Giovanni e Paolo, taking the Buonsignori photographs, and we were all convinced that the altar-piece there is by him. 
Then we went to San Marco and saw the organ shutters by Gentile Bellini in the work-shop and the bronze doors, and then had tea at [0133] Florian’s. It was raining so we came back and worked at our Repertorio. 
Friday, October 9, 1891, Hotel Monaco, Venice 
Academy with Costa in the morning.
[marked in blue crayon in the left margin] In the afternoon cleaned the Lotto in the Carmine with water and turpentine and knives. It turned out to be very beautiful, especially the landscape, one of Lotto’s finest. Costa also gave the Carpaccio a washing. 
Then we floated about in a gondola.
Saturday, October 10, 1891, Venice 
A photo of Ray came in the morning. 
We went to San Spirito and the Gesuati and then 2 hours at the Academy. Then to the Scalzi and San Giobbe where we enjoyed the Savoldo.
In the afternoon we went to the Lido where I had a delicious swim. 
[133a] Sunday, October 11, 1891, Hotel Monaco, Venice 
Went to S. Marcuola, and S. Marziale, and then to the Correr. There we met Mlle Miranda and the Costas, who were charming, but who interfered with our work. 
Went with them to the Palazzo Reale in the afternoon, and then with Costa to the Querini Stampalia.
Afterwards we took our gondolier (58) and rowed about in the sunset.
In the evening B. went to call on Mlle Jackowska and Mlle Mercier. 
Read Contes Cruels and Symonds and Howells on Venice. They are almost worse than nothing. One gets very tired of Howells’ American drollery and “stuffing”, for his book has no real matter. Symonds [133b] is not drool, but he is sentimental, which is worse. 
Monday, October 12, 1891, Venice 
Met Costa and went over the Royal Palace, where we found, among other things, 2 glorious Tintorettos, and one of Titian’s loveliest things, a decorative ceiling painting in the Libreria, painted when he was 93.
Then we went to S. Giorgio Maggiore and Santa Maria delle Zitelle. 
I was tired after lunch and rested. Then went to see Pordenone’s frescoes in the cloister of S. Stefano, done by him in rivalry with Titian, so Howells says, when they were both in love with Palma’s lovely daughter Violante!!
Read Gray aloud, and then B. went to call on Mlle Jackowska. 
Finished Contes Cruels, like them less than others.
