Wednesday, October 28, 1891, Padua 
Got up at 4-30 and took the train at 5-30 for Monselice, where we spent the hour we had to wait in exploring the town. It was a great surprise. From the station one only sees the ruined medieval castle, but as one wanders into the town and climbs the hill a little way, a most wonderful view opens out, with the conical peaks of the Euganeans rising opposite, and the plain stretching on endlessly. The effect somehow was very much like that of a South Italian landscape, perhaps due to the volcanic hills. Only palms [146] were necessary to make you believe you were in Sicily or Naples. 
Lower down in the town there is a sort of decaying renaissance castle, and from the castle a road winds along the hillside broadening out into terraces and lined on the hillside with baroque chapels, all finally ending in a delicious baroque villa with its own little baroque church. We rarely have had such a complete impression of a past and yet comprehensible phase of human existence.
From Monselice we went on to Montagnara – passing – so reluctantly! – Este on the way. 
Montagnana, too, was a happy surprise. Baedeker says well that its completely preserved town walls [0147] are alone worth a visit. At the corners are towers, of which Cima or Carpaccio’s most wild dreams of fortifications are not too wild. But so picturesque, so quaint, so really beautiful, with the circle of lines and the broad grassy moat, with the narrow stream of water with the women washing and the geese and turkeys and donkeys cropping the grass. Then we found Buonconsiglio in his glory!
After Montagnana we went to Rovigo, but I draw a veil, for the gallery there was a fraud., the town was not pretty. 
Our train did not start till after 8, and we were [0148] both poisoned by something we ate, copper-poisoned, I think.
Thursday October 29, 1891, Croce d’Oro, Padova
Went to Santa Giustina in the morning and climbed up close to where we could see the Paolo, such a marvelous thing. We were both sick and dizzy from our poisoning, but we kept on and “did” the Scuola del Santo and the Church of S. Antonio. 
After lunch we went to the Capello [sic] di San Giorgio and enjoyed the wonderful Altichieris, in spite of the bitter, piercing cold, which suddenly took the place of the [0149] fine, mild weather. 
The last part of the afternoon we spent in the Eremitani before the Mantegna frescoes. 
B. was awfully sick in the night.
Friday, October 30, 1891, Padua
We spent the day at Vicenza, but did not have time to enjoy Palladio very much, because there were so many pictures to be seen. It was a day to be remembered by me, because I first became aware of Mantegna as a really great painter. There was also a fine Buonconsiglio [0150] 
We were not able to see the Loschi Giorgione, unfortunately, nor to get to Monte Berico. It left me with a longing to go back, and to make acquaintance with the stately palaces. The finest building of all seemed to be the one in which the pictures are collected.
Saturday, October 31, 1891, Hotel della Spada, Castelfranco
An early train took us to Bassano 〈del Grappa〉, where we spent the morning imbibing Bassanesque views [0151] outside and the Bassanis painting in the churches and gallery. There is very little in the churches, but the gallery is delightful. No gallery is better lighted, or with a nicer custode, and in the long room there is scarcely anything that is rubbish. Jacopo Bassano has nearly 20 pictures there, many of them among his very, very best. We saw Ruskin’s and Browning’s signatures in the visitors’ book. 
But the astonishing thing was the look of the town [0152] and the people. It was market day, and the “usual” Bassano was being enacted at every corner, cows and oxen, and copper pots and pans, and carts, and vegetables, and brightly dressed men and women bending over. It is really impossible to understand the Bassani without coming here, especially Jacopo. 
Later we came to Castelfranco, and got just a glimpse of Giorgione’s Madonna before sunset. What a sunset – glowing long and long, like an American sunset, as we walked round the walls of the tiny town.
