x Monday, November 16, 1891, Vienna
Gallery. Walked together afternoon.
Finished Goncourt’s Journal. 
reading Crowe and Cavalcaselle’s “Titian”.
Tuesday, November 17, 1891, Vienna
Special entrance to gallery. Herr Prof. Wickhoff joined us and took up much valuable time. 
Began (both) La femme 〈au〉 [de] XVIII siècle (Goncourt).
 
Began article. 
Wednesday, November 18, 1891, Vienna
Gallery. Showed Janet and Mrs. Jägar the pictures. 
Wrote article. 
Thursday, November 19, 1891, Vienna
Finished and posted article on gallery for Pall Mall Gazette.
Went to the gallery from 1-4. 
Read a French translation (excellent) of Hedda Gabler (Ibsen)
 in the evening. 
Quarrelled.
x Friday, November 20, 1891, Vienna 
Great unhappiness at the prospect of going back to London —————! 
Gallery in the morning. Saw the Greek bronze〈s〉. Showed pictures to Miss Cooke. 
Walked in the afternoon. 
Thought of doing work for the Home Reading Room. 
Saturday, November 21, 1891, Vienna 
We spent the morning at the Albertina looking at the drawing of the “Roman School”, but discovered, among the [0164] hundred or more so-called Michelangelos and other great names, very, very little worth looking at, perhaps one of the “school” of Andrea del Sarto and some Baccio Bandinellis. 
In the afternoon we walked, and Janet came to tea. 
Finished La Femme au XVIII siècle.
Sunday, November 22, 1891,  Pension Lejeune, Maximilianplatz 4, Vienna
I went to the gallery alone while the other〈s〉 went to the Academy.
Met Napier Myles in the crowd coming out.
Read A.L. Burd’s Machiavelli
 to B. who had a headache. Lord Acton’s Introduction was interesting. 
Read Richepin’s Cauchemars
 and Les Soeurs Hédouin,
 which is really very good, by Mélandri. 
x Monday, November 23, 1891, Vienna 
Went to the gallery. Napier Myles was there, and a deadly mixture of vanity and [0165] philanthropy made me waste two valuable hours upon him. He was très embêtant, and cast a dreadful gloom over me. His state of mind – that of a man “trained” at Oxford in literary traditions puffed out with arrogance, catching the trail of a new science and contending with it, and thinking that of course, as an Oxford man, he must understand it! – was amusing; but a little goes a long way! He was particularly anxious to be assured that Morelli really was the latest thing, and that he was “recognized” – but a Fiji islander would have found it as easy to understand what Morelli was [0165 bis] about. It made me sad.
Miss Cooke and Mrs. Clarke, whom I took around the gallery on Sunday, were very much struck by the likeness of the youngest man in Giorgione’s Three Astrologers to Bernhard, and also by certain nuances of likeness in the St. Sebastian attributed to Correggio. It is very curious. Giorgione’s Shepherd at Hampton Court looked so like him, and the young man in the Three Ages, and the Portrait by Botticelli in the Louvre. Miss Cooke’s “favourites” are the St. Sebastian and “das grosse Eccehomobild” by Titian. Mrs. Clarke liked Correggio’s Ganymede best. 
I took tea with Janet. She is in a curious state of mind. She is naturally an intellectual but she has tried too much to squeeze [0165 ter] herself into a moral mould, and the result is a painful contortion, and she doesn’t know where she is. She is shocking by dependence. She wants some one to tell her what to think, but when they tell her, she grows stiff and angry if the thoughts don’t fit into her perfectly narrow and impossible moral mould. So she is unhappy and undecided, enjoying nothing, useless, except as her husband’s “helpmeet”. Her sister who is here is in love with a man younger than herself, and Janet was in a rage over it. She thought it so “low” and “degrading” and utterly incomprehensible, not “ideal” in it.
Women, women? Why shouldn’t a woman love a man younger than herself? Janet’s remark was so characteristic. “I can easily imagine falling in love with a man 50 years old. He would represent all my ideals.” “Falling in love with your head”, I replied, and it made her angry, I fear. 
In the evening we read Ibsen’s Fest auf Solhaug.
