Saturday, December 19, 1891, 
16 viale Principe Amedeo, Florence
Read Maurice Barrè’s Sous l’oeil des Barbares,
 a weakened, very much weakened Pater, an awful bore. 
Met Costa at the Uffizi and decided upon the chronology of the Titians in the two galleries. 
Had a bad headache, but went to Fiesole in the electric tram, walking down part way. 
Costa came to spend the evening, and we talked pictures. 
* Sunday, December 20, 1891, Florence
Went in the morning to S. Marco and the Academy. 
In the afternoon I went to talk with Gertrude, while B. read Voigt. 
Read the Journal des Goncourts in the Echo de Paris as lent by Costa.
Monday, December 21, 1891, Florence
Uffizi in the morning and notes on the Venetian pictures. 
Looked at the drawings. Costa came but did not stay long. 
Walked. 
Read Mill’s “Subjection [0177] of Women” and enjoyed it keenly. 
* Tuesday, December 22, 1891, Florence
Went to S. Spirito and the Carmini [sic] and walked out towards San Miniato in the morning. 
Called on Gertrude. 
Called on Costa’s aunt, Mlle Miranda, and enjoyed their cordiality surprisingly. I felt rather foolish in going, for I have nothing in common with her.
Costa came back with me and paid a call. 
B. finished Voigt and began Ferrari. 
At 7 went to Arezzo
* Wednesday, December 23, 1891, Albergo Victoria, Arezzo 
Went to S. Maria del Pieve, the Duomo and the Pinacothek in the morning, and S. Francesco (Pier dei Franceschi frescoes) in the afternoon and a little walk to see the porch of S. Maria delle Grazie by Benedetto da Maiano. The architecture was just like Buonconsiglio’s, and wonderfully beautiful. The view of Arezzo through the arches was charming. This was a great pleasure, and it was a pleasure, too, [0178] to see the charming little Monte di Pietà in the principal Piazza with its balcony at the top with a fence of vase ornaments. 
In the evening I read Layard and Guy de Maupassant’s Yvette
 and other stories, and B. read Burckhardt upon Giotto and his followers. He found it excellent. 
Delicious night sleep. 
* Thursday, December 24, 1891, Florence
We went again to the Duomo and several other Churches, especially to see Bart〈olomeo〉 della Gatta.
 Took the train at 1 back. It was pretty cold in Arezzo, but we enjoyed ourselves. 
Called on Gertrude. 
Read Taine on Napoleon’s view of religion in the evening, and Crowe and Ca〈valcaselle〉 on Masolino. Also The Fountain of Youth by Vernon Lee’s brother.
 
Friday, December 25, 1891, Christmas, Florence 
Worked steadily on our catalogue till 3 as it was raining. 
I called on Gertrude and B. on the Ways in the afternoon. [0179] 
Read Crowe and Cavacaselle 〈on〉 Masaccio in evening.
Saturday, December 26, 1891, Florence
Further notes on the Titians in the Uffizi. 
Began type-writing catalogue of Florence Galleries. 
B. asked the Ways to tea in the afternoon, and I felt absurdly excited at the idea of meeting her, for he had said so much about how fascinating she was and how much he liked her. Moreover, the fact that she had offered to become his maitresse interested me. She also felt intensely curious about me – and the result was funny to a degree. We each were left with the comfortable feeling of superiority, she feeling that I had no “charm” – absolutely none – and I feeling that she had little taste and no intellect. It was hard for me not to have “moral” prejudices against her – so hard, for she is the kind of woman, flirtatious and over-dressed and over-mannered, from whom [0180] I have always fled. But when I am really just, I know that flirting is only one of the escapes from ennui, like religion, or devotion to children, and not so very much worse in its effect on the world. Still I don’t like it, and Mrs. Way shocked and shocked and shocked me, so that I was positively embarrassed and scarcely knew what to say. I liked Mr. Way exceedingly; still, on walking back with him, I found him heavy. Mrs. Way shocked me because she dragged all the conversation down to personal badinage, into which she did not even put the sparkle of wit. No doubt I shocked her by trying to talk à la Berenson, but unsuccessfully. B. was thoroughly tired after the ordeal, but he was amused to find that we were each [0181] so calmly conscious of superiority. The truth is our “spheres”, though neither of them domestic, are so utterly different that we haven’t the slightest desire, either one of us, to shine in the other’s sphere. I am afraid she interests me no more. I believe it was stupid of me to say I would go to see her. Still I will do my best. What interested me most was to see that even a person like B. was not shocked with such arrant flirtatiousness, but on the contrary rather pleased with it. I suppose such a thing as instinctive “male vanity” does not exist in every man. Well, I can’t be jealous of her. I believe even if he should “fall in love” with her I could not now be really jealous. 
We read Candide
 today and some of the new Revues Bleues,
 and B. read Crove and Cavalcaselle on Giotto. 
Last night up till one o’clock we read Vasari’s Life of Titian. 
