14.I.92
My dear daughter,
Thine with reference to income is at hand. All this can be left until the spring, when I earnestly trust thee will return with thy children. Whatever I may wish to do for my children, I have nothing at command at present beyond what I have been appropriating for them, and this as thee knows has often been with extreme difficulty and inconvenience. It would be social ruin for thee and measureless suffering to thy family for thee to remain when thy children return, and I can contemplate no arrangement save of thy return. Families are dependent on their members reciprocally, and dependence (if it be nothing but pecuniary dependence) and independence do not go together. No claims of selfhood equal those made by parentage while children are young. [0193] It is due to thee that I should lovingly and tenderly (sic!) as a father press these things upon thee.
More than all thee could hope to gain pecuniarily by self support would be lost by the expenses and inconveniences of a separated life.I earnestly advise thee to make the best of thy home. Thee made a false step by refusing the counsel of thy parents and it has turned out only less bad than we expected. And now at this crisis of thy life, yet more earnestly and with far more certainty as to the terrible results, we entreat thee not to desert thy children and family, and involve us all in social ruin. In thy conspicuous position, concealment of the facts of thy absence and the circumstances of thy travelling cannot be hoped for.
In much sorrow, but also much love
Thy Father 
“I would simply say to her, use thy allowance decently and not against the primary instincts of nature. It is thine, but not to ruin us all by buying dynamite.” I cannot think it [0194] would be right to give thee a rope with which to hang thyself — that is, to make it easy for thee to wander around Europe in this scandalous manner with a penniless Bohemian. No wise father could furnish funds for such a course to any child he loved.”
To mother: “If Mary deserts her children to wander around Europe with B. it shall not be on my money.”
Saturday, January 23, 1892, Florence
Met B. at S. Marco, and went home with him and had a long talk over our affairs. 
Called on Gertrude with mother in the afternoon and took tea with B. 
He brought Loeser and Costa in the evening. As soon as Costa saw mother, he saw the whole situation, as regards the family. He is delightfully clever. He said he believed [0195] that families who made a profession of the “emancipation of women” were in reality for more tyrannical and oppressive than families without highflown principles. Que c’est vrai! 
Read the second volume of César Borgia by Yriarte. 
We are reading À Rebours by Huysman〈s〉,
 Greek Literature by Perry
 and ever so many German books on Art. 
Sunday, January 24, 1892, Florence
Fra Angelico in the Uffizi, and further talk over our affairs. 
Tea together. 
Monday, January 25, 1892, Florence 
Brancacci Chapel. 
Read Vasari’s Life of Fra Angelico. 
Called on Gertrude. 
B. went to call on Ways with Loeser. 
Tuesday, January 26, 1892, Florence
Read lives of Masolino and Massaccio in Vasari. 
Took a long walk behind Bellosguardo in the afternoon, and quarrelled but made it up before we had gone very far. 
B. dined with Loeser.
