Friday, February 5, 1892, Florence
Mother tried to mix in a little religion in Ray’s matutinal fairy story, and said “so they prayed Jesus to make her good” 
“O, don’t let’s play that”, said Ray promptly. 
“Well, couldn’t they pray for the fairy to come and make her good.”
“No, don’t let’s play that. Let’s play she just came.”
Sensible child! May she always be of the same mind!
We went to see many Ghirlandajos in the morning, and in the afternoon had tea at Loeser’s with Mr. Sumner and Miss Thayer of Boston.
In the evening mother and I talked. Poor mother! Poor old people everywhere who try to make over young people’s lives according to their pattern, and poor young people! What an awful institution for hypocrisy and oppression the family is!
[in the left margin] There was an old man of Dundee who taught little owls to drink tea. For he said, ‘To eat mice is not proper nor nice!’ This punctilious man of Dundee!
Honesty is the one personal virtue, all one’s other virtues are questions of geography [0205] and history. I shall never oppress my daughter! 
Saturday, February 6, 1892, Florence
I breathe freely at last, for mother is gone. She is so good and kind, but it is deadly to live with people who disapprove of you and who are religious. Still, if she didn’t try to interfere with me, and do it effectively by worrying over me, for I hate to give her pain, I could enjoy her so much, even her stupidities, such as talking about women being a “later evolution than man”, and her belief in prayer. 
I took her to see the famous Giottos in S. Maria Novella before she started – Ruskin’s Giottos – which is about like saying servant girls’ diamonds. She thought it must be a crazy joke. 
Then I went to B., but I was so ill, being just taken unwell that I could do nothing. 
We spent the afternoon and evening together, and entered in 〈our Catalogue〉 the Venetians here, looked at photos of Ghirlandajo and read his article on ‘the function of science of art criticism’. 
I began Les Messieurs Golovleff by Chtchédrine. 
Yes, I must learn to be honest. 
