Sunday, February 7, 1892, Florence
We met at the Academy and looked at the Pesellino and Botticellis. But I was feeling too ill to do much, so we came back. 
I read in the Galignani of a woman who domiciled herself in South Dakota in order to get a divorce, so I wrote to Emma Brayton for full information on the subject. 
In the afternoon we took a walk and quarrelled dreadfully. When B. begins to talk to me of my family and my relations to them, I behave like the cuttle fish which when it is attacked, squirts out an inky liquid and makes everything murky around it. (Or to be more accurate, like the skunk!) Then he gets angry and we say horrid things. 
We dined apart, I was so cross. But I employed the time well in writing home a personal “declaration of independence”. 
B. dined at Loeser’s with Sumner. 
* Monday, February 8, 1892, Florence 
We love each other too much to stay quarrelled, and on the whole we are both, especially [0207] B., too reasonable. So we had a nice talk in his rooms and then started to grapple with the Correggio article once more, as he has received a request to contribute something to a new magazine a friend of his in Boston is just starting, The Knight Errant.
 We worked at it in the afternoon, took a walk and continued at it in the evening. I think we are clever enough to learn to write fairly well. I hope so, and B. at least has plenty to say. So have I, if I dared to utter all the rage that is in me. B. said, “The beginning of activity is the unconsciousness of ignorance.” 
Still reading Golovleff, B. reading Le Prêtre Marié.
Tuesday, February 9, 1892, Florence
“The sum of the matter is that unless woman repudiates her womanliness, her duty to her husband, to her children, to society, to the law, and to everyone but herself, she cannot emancipate herself.”
But I try not to think about myself in general terms, lest, like most badly educated [0208] “emancipated” people, so called … If all a victim to the latest fashion in Ideals! Probably I am in part that. Sometimes I have just the feeling which is complementary to what I have felt sleeping in the prairies under the open sky. Then I seemed to feel the great swirl of the revolving earth, bearing me along. And so in my ideas and conduct, at times, I realize that I am caught in the swirl, merely a tiny creature at the top, carried irresistibly on by the inevitable rush of ideas. My discontent, my rebellion, even my mistakes sometimes seem less individual than typical. But, curiously, I care all the more, for my sensations at least are my own, and I begin to know sweet from bitter and happiness from unhappiness. I never had such a consciousness of Life as I have now, when I realize how little any actions are “free-willed”.
[a new date cancelled out]
Uffizi in the morning and further work on the [0209] Correggio article. 
In the afternoon we had a beautiful walk from Fiesole by Poggio and Vincigliata back by Doccia.
In the evening Loeser came to dine with me and I talked to him about giving Berenson money. Loeser said some very stupid and some very unkind things, and many which showed him utterly unappreciative, but yet I cannot say that I did not like him in the end better than in the beginning, although I fear the result of my talk is practically nothing. What I liked was that he did try hard to be honest, and that is nice. Besides it was impossible for me to keep agreeing with him that B. treats him in a very disagreeable way sometimes. 
I said I hoped I would never try to make my children lead my life, and he instantly exclaimed, “O, it doesn’t matter about them, they are both girls! – – ! – – –!”Who doesn’t at any rate unconsciously feel so? 
