* Friday, February 12, 1892, Florence 
Uffizi in the morning, studying the Credi and Verocchio. 
B. lunched here and we frivoled away the afternoon, enjoying it very much, till towards sunset, when we had a delightful walk. 
In the evening we worked upon the Correggio. 
I finished Les Messieurs Golovleff and began to re-read Wuthering Heights.
 
B. read his Perry and Loti’s Phantome d’Orient.
 
Saturday, February 13, 1892, Florence
Went to the Bargello in the morning to study the Verocchios, then to the Uffizi. I called on Gertrude in the afternoon and then took tea with B. 
Costa came in the evening and we compared notes on Naples, and looked at Lionardo and Botticelli photographs. Costa is so nice. 
* Sunday, February 14, 1892, Florence [Mary’s 28th birthday] 
We worked on our Correggio in the morning, and walked to Mugnone in the afternoon. We had great fun making stepping stones across a brook.
Costa said last night that he had been [0212] fool enough to let Loeser persuade him to go and lunch there to meet a certain Mrs. Way. Loeser told B. this morning that Costa had been so very anxious to make Mrs. Way’s acquaintance that he had to arrange a little luncheon for them. 
Bernhard was very delightful all day. It is the happiest birthday I can remember. 
I read Agnes Grey,
 and Baudelaire’s Poèmes en Prose.
 
Monday, February 15, 1892, Florence
Pier di Cosimo at the Uffizi in the morning. 
Then we went to Gagliardi’s to see his Battle of Centaurs and Lapithae. 
Miss and Mr. Britten, Mr. Musgrave and Loeser came to tea at B.’s. I liked Miss Britten very much. 
We continued our grapple with Correggio in the evening. 
We discussed writing a “History of Taste in Italian Pictures.” 
B. spoke of Henry James’ American “ending in a marriage which did not take place”. 
Tuesday, February 16, 1892, Florence 
Wrote Correggio morning, afternoon and evening. 
Took tea with Loeser. 
Karin is really growing very pretty. I have found a good Kindergarten teacher. [words crossed out]
