Friday, February 19, 1892, Florence
Looked at Fra Bartolommeo drawings in the Uffizi and at the Andrea del Sarto’s. 
B. had a letter from Ned Warren saying that he could only give him one hundred pounds more, in the middle of May. It was a very nice letter, although it conveyed bad news. Still it is something to have that £100. 
Afterwards we came home and talked over our plans very seriously. B. decided not to leave Italy this summer. 
In the afternoon he went to see Mme Villari, and I went to see Gertrude. 
Then we looked at photographs <of> Michelangelo, the Ferrarese, and the later Florentines. 
We were both sleepy in the evening, so we did not do much except discuss our plans, which are indeed somewhat hard to arrange! 
I am reading an Italian translation of Tourghenieff’s Assia
 with my teacher, Mme Zucchelli. 
x Saturday, February 20, 1892, Florence
I went to B.’s and darned some of his stockings. 
Then we went to Alinari’s and looked over photographs. Costa joined us. He wanted me to come and meet the Countess [0215] Gamba, but I invented an excuse. She is a great gossip, and I don’t want to meet her. She is said besides to be noted for “Lesbianism”, qui ne me plait pas au tout. Still of course that is not my affair. 
B. told me that Musgrave is a great haunter of brothels. He said one day to B. and Loeser that whenever he felt he did not want a woman, he knew he was ill, and that when he wanted one, he usually had one, [‘which was about every other day’ added in blue ink]. Wouldn’t mother’s and Alys’ hair stand on end if they knew he was that kind of a man, and they had so much enjoyed his society and had described him as “a perfect gentleman”! What I hate more about him is that he judges all women by the women he meets in brothels. He said once that the thoughts of all women were centered about the small part of their body occupied by their sexual organs. It was months after I heard that before I could bear the thought of him. Mais, enfin, qu’est que ça me fait? He has translated Dante very well, and you can’t expect too much of one person — but I LOATHE him, and I wish he’d get syphilis and die in tortures!
B. dined with Loeser and I called on Gertrude and wrote my Cedars Book. [0216] 
Sunday, February 21, 1892, Florence
A year ago B. arrived in London. We have had much trouble, but far, far more happiness since. We have been separated very little.
In the morning we went through the Academy with Costa, and then came back and looked at photographs. 
The children went to Certosa, and we walked to San Miniato. 
In the evening we went over our Hampton Court catalogue and the article on Titian. 
My Italian takes so much time. I have no chance to read. 
B. had a bad headache in the evening. 
Ray came back disappointed from Certosa “because there were no monkeys”. She thought when I said “a monk would take her round”, I meant a monkey. 
Monday, Fed. 22, 1892, Florence
A rather disappointing day, partly on account of the severe depression which always comes on when one is getting a bad cold. 
We went over some of the photographs in the morning, and then went to the Pitti. Costa and Loeser were there. Costa called B. ‘assonant’ over an Andrea del Sarto he did not know, and Loeser smiled [the ‘d’ added in blue ink] with most malevolent glee at it. This [0217] made B. so angry that he went away in a rage. 
I went with the others to the Martelli collection and saw a young Velasquez (according to Richter), the head of a man with a grey beard and red cap, and 2 Beccafumis, Luper〈cali〉 … feasts. Besides this, a Donatello heraldic beast in gold on the stair-case, a St. John and the head of a little St. John, and a David which shows clearly where Michelangelo got his inspiration.
After lunch I went with the children to a Washington’s Birthday party which Gertrude gave, a very pretty, dainty little affair, which made a deep impression upon the children. 
Then I wrote my Cedars story till B. came. 
The evening was sacrificed to a discussion of the quarrel of the morning. B. found me very unsympathetic and insensitive. So I was, I think. My brain felt quite numb. I hope he will not often get so angry with people. Whether they deserve it or not, it doesn’t pay. He determined to drop Loeser, and in that I think he is wise, for Loeser is a simply awful bore. But it would be a mistake to quarrel open with him. Well, it was all rather a bore, yes, a decided bore. 
