* Tuesday, March 1, 1892, Hotel Globa e Londra, Pistoia
We studied Verocchio, Lorenzo di Credi and Ridolfo Ghirlandaio in the Uffizi in the morning. 
In the afternoon we went to Pistoia. 
I read Creighton on the way, and B. read Symonds’ Essays, Speculative and Suggestive.
 After a vermouth we walked about and looked at the town. 
We had a delicious evening before a fire, I reading Creighton and B. Huysmans’ En rade,
 a sort of more realistic, because less romantic and epic La terre.
 It was delightful. 
* Wednesday, March 2, 1892, Florence 
We “did” Pistoia, studying especially the Lorenzo di Credi in the Duomo. How fascinating it is to feel that you really possess a fresh town! 
In the evening we arranged our photographs in the new covers. We were tired.
Thursday, March 3, 1892, Florence
We met in the Strozzi Chapel. 
B. was lazy, so we went to Alinari’s and then to his rooms, where I wrote to Edith and he arranged photographs. Emma went out in the afternoon so I took care of Karin. 
B. came to tea, we had a small stroll, and then continued our photograph work. 
In the evening I read Creighton and he [0223] read Crowe and Cavalcaselle and Morelli. Still tired.
Friday, March 4, 1892, Florence
Uffizi, drawings and Bronzino. I stole off and enjoyed myself among the Venetians for a while! 
We finished arranging photographs here in the afternoon and took a little walk. 
I went to see Gertrude. 
Read Creighton. B. read Huysmans’ En ménage
 and Eastlake’s Literature of the Fine Arts.
Saturday, March 5, 1892, Florence
I was unwell and felt very ill. 
Went to B.’s and helped arrange his photographs. 
Began our Lotto article. 
He went to Castello to see the Ridolfo Ghirlandaio’s and I went to see Gertrude. Her Swiss maid Julia used to be a waitress at a hotel. She said there was not a man who came who did not try to seduce her. She disliked gentlemen least, because they were polite and understood No. She utterly refused to hear of such a thing as a chaste man! O it is so easy to forgive where there is love, so it does not need forgiveness, but the very beauty of that somehow makes the other so disgusting. How it turns my heart to bitterness and I know what I am writing of. But worse still, to try to seduce a girl because she has to work for her living and belongs to a lower class — Ugh! It is horrid. It is uncivilized. 
