* Tuesday, March 8, 1892, Florence
Pitti in the morning. 
Took tea with B. 
We had dinner together at La Toscana. We had to compose an elaborate lie for Loeser’s benefit, but it was rather amusing. 
Wednesday, March 9, 1892, Florence
Received news of B.F.C.C.’s election to the County Council. 
Worked on photographs all the morning. 
Karin’s birthday party in the afternoon. 
B. called on Costa. 
Loeser came to dinner. He was a solid bore. 
B. finished En ménage and I began it and read it half through.
Thursday, March 10, 1892, Florence (Karin 8 years old)
As it was raining, we spent the morning over photographs. 
After lunch we went to a concert. [0226] Costa and Giovanni were there. Half way through Costa said, “I am boring myself to death,” and went out. We followed his example very shortly. 
We discussed the heinousness of various offences rather hotly. I must say that going about with prostitutes seems to me about the worst and hatefullest personal vice a man can have, but B. does not agree with me!
 Some things make me boil over with indignation.
Mother wrote in a letter to Alys, which Alys sent me, that if Alys wanted to go to a certain party, she would send Jessie or Lucy to bring her home in a cab —! Alys is a great strapping young woman of 24, bigger than either of the servants, and fully as well able to take care of herself. Moreover, servants are far more likely to be accosted than ladies. But they are poor, so it doesn’t matter. I know society is organized so, but I hate to realize that mother gives it her approval. She would not have before she came to England. Then the utter indignity for a girl like Alys, who calls herself “free,” of being sent for. I would rather be Lucy or Jessie than a helpless [0227] creature of 24 who can’t go about London alone. — But such thoughts are too sickening. 
I went to see Gertrude. 
B. began Vol. II of Creighton’s History of the Papacy.
* Friday, March 11, 1892, Florence
Uffizi. Shopping. 
B. lunched here. 
Edith Carpenter’s cousin, Miss Mary Foote, called here. She talked thoroughly New Englandy gossip about Edith’s moral qualities and described Bond as “so just.” It amused me immensely. She thought every man ought to go into business. 
We had a rather lazy evening, with music, etc. 
I am reading Hawthorne’s Wonder Book
 to Ray. 
I wrote more of my story. 
B. read the Revue de Deux Mondes upon the recent Rembrandt books.
Saturday, March 12, 1892, Florence
San [sic] Spirito, several other Churches and the Uffizi in the morning. 
In the afternoon we walked out to a convent school, La Quiete, near Castello to see some Ridolfo Ghirlandaios. It was a beautiful afternoon. 
In the evening I wrote my story and read En ménage. 
B. continued with Creighton. Began Tanglewood Tales
 with Ray.
