It would be hard for me to put into words the unhappiness that comes over me sometimes when I see that, even where he has solemnly promised to do it, and where there is every motive to lead him to work, Bernhard will not take the trouble. We often quarrel over it. If I could make up my mind to it, it would be easier. But he promises me each time that he will do it, and is hurt and discouraged when I cannot believe him. I can’t do the work. I would so gladly. Of course when I see him like this in regard to the Hampton Court Guide, I cannot help foreseeing that it will be equally easy for him all along to find excuses for not doing any work of the kind. It is so easy to think that it will be hard to get things published, or that nobody wants them, about anything he is likely to write. I see that the same thing will happen to the Vasari he sometimes talks of writing next summer. He is unwilling to do work that is disagreeable, and writing is disagreeable to him. I think he is wrong, and it makes me unhappy. I cannot blame myself for having set my heart on doing the Hampton Court Guide, for at one time he was as enthusiastic as I over it, and he has promised me, so many times, to do it this winter. What have we done? We have perhaps out of all the winter spent a dozen hours over it, re-writing the Savoldo, the Paris Bordone, and the Bonifazio, and going over the Titian. I believe that not once have we begun it without decided protest on his part, and his trying to make me feel that it was stupid of me to urge it just then, when he would be so much better occupied with something else. It is unkind of him, for he ought to know how much I care, by this time. But it is not only the personal feeling shown about it, as the knowledge that his failure, if he does fail in this, is what I must expect in him all through our lives. 
It reminds me, in some ways so horribly, of promises B.F.C.C. kept making me, especially after I had got cross and discouraged over it, really to give up a little time to writing what I hoped for, a ‘primer’ of philosophy. I do not mean the things are at all the same, but they treated it in the same way. If B. would say at once, ‘I won’t do it, I don’t consider it worth wasting my time on’, I would have to give it up. Of course I would be awfully sorry, but it would give me more [0233] hope for the future than his present way of dealing with it, which is to acknowledge that it ought to be done, to promise to do it, and then to put every obstacle in the way when any chance comes. Yet he expects me to believe that he has the capacity for work of this kind! He often talks about the books he means to write, but more and more, as I have to judge him by what he does now in regard to the thing in hand, my heart sinks when he talks of these books. It is not that writing is the one occupation worthwhile. But it is worthwhile not to let momentary laziness and weakness interfere with what you have made up your mind it is best to do. It is so easy to find excuses, a much less clever person than B. could find a hundred reasons why the Hampton Court Guide isn’t worth writing. It would be more than easy for me to find reasons for not writing my child’s story. Indeed, it is hard to find reasons for going on! But I notice he does not encourage me to yield to pleasanter things and put the story by. The excuse is that my story may probably bring in immediate money, whereas all writing is, at any rate at first, unremunerative. He often speaks as if he thought he might make money by it in the end, but you don’t reach [0234] the end without beginning. 
Now, we are assured of a certain amount of money, at least we will probably have it, so that I could easily say, “O, why should I bother myself with these stupid children’s stories.” But I want us to be independent. It is horrible to me to take money from Frank. No doubt it is a kind of pride, but I want everyone who knows us to feel that we are able to be independent. And if we are, if one of my books succeeded, I should be sorry to have it all my work. B. had a little while ago a feeling as if he would like to show everyone that he is worth something. Well, I would like it too, and very much. I would not like it, if I thought it would be really bad for him. But alas! I feel that it would be good for him, and that it is the nicest thing for him to do, now that he no longer goes among people to give them his ideas, and especially when he makes a point of not giving them. 
I feel stupid, as if I could not exactly reach the bottom of the feeling I have about this. Not I have a strong [0235] feeling about it, which makes me at times very unhappy. He cannot blame me for having had hopes that he would stick to this. He is failing to justify my hopes, without convincing me that I am wrong. That is miserable, it is sometimes in my mind when I am happiest, the feeling that our position is so insecure and that he will not help me to make it more secure. Of course it would be thousand times easier for me to demand money to carry out all my schemes with him, if I could point to a finished work which was the result of our being together. But if all I have to show for my winter with him is a child’s story, which I could have written as well at home. I know father, and mother, too, will put more difficulties in my way, than they would if I said, “We have done this”, “we are going to continue working. We need to be together for our work.” People always go by what you can show, not by what you are in yourself. Besides, they know too little to appreciate what I may have learned.
B. knows all this as well as I, and he won’t help me, simply because it involves sacrifice of time on his part. I am quite sick of asking him to do it. Sometimes I think I will throw it all into the fire. But I hate not to leave the chance open to him, [0236] small as it is now, when more than three months have slipped away. 
I wonder if all these thoughts make me love him less. Certainly they make me feel as if I could not count upon him to help me practically. Now, particularly in such a situation as ours, somebody must be a little practical, of course the less we are associated in drudgery, the more will it fall upon me alone to do, particularly if my family get any inkling of the fact that I am writing my child’s stories in order to have money to give to him, while he sharpens for his pleasure (and for mine) his eye and his intellect. 
Still, the practical side is not all It is the queer feeling you have for a grown up person who promises to do a thing, and then lets every obstacle come in his way, without facing it and saying clearly I was a fool to undertake it. I know he would be disappointed if I let my stories fall through, saying at the same time, ‘O, I mean to write them.’ ‘I ought to do it.’ He would be disappointed practically as I am, because of the advantage we hoped for from them, and [0237] naturally he would feel somewhat more alone, cast on his own resources, without anyone willing to do much to help him. And he would be too clever to hope much from any similar undertaking of mine, altho’ of course a lucky chance might make me hit on something pleasant all the way through. But he would not help drawing inferences as to my future, particularly if I talked much about the writing I was going to do. 
I am going to show him this. I think it is clearer than I could say it, although not very clear! But I am apt to lose my temper if I try to say things, or else I cannot think of everything at once, and what I say sounds silly. 
I do not like to give up altogether the idea of our making use of what we know in writing, neither do I like to think of myself as being the member of the firm to have all the bother of writing. 
[in blue ink, written at the bottom of a page left blank] 
A Year later
All the same he was right about the Hampton Court Guide being a perfectly unpublishable affair!! But I cannot complain now of his being lazy in writing, the dear! 
