Sunday, March 20, 1892, Siena, Pensione Tognazzi 
I awoke at 6.30 and saw the glorious hills and mountains in the early morning mist and the brilliant sunshine. 
We had breakfast at 8.30 and then went out to the Municipio where we looked at the Sodomas and Lorenzettis and Beccafumis. Then to the Duomo and home for lunch. 
In the afternoon we walked out to the Osservanti, where we saw lovely altar-piece by one of the Della Robbia, the Coronation of the Virgin with Saints. It was a lovely walk. 
In the evening we wrote our Lotto and read. I am reading the second volume of Creighton.
Monday, March 21, 1892, Siena 
In the morning we went to San〈to〉 Spirito and the Servi, ending up at the Opera del Duomo. There we quarrelled, because I did not think Duccio’s compositions so beautiful as Bernhard thought them. [marked with an X in the left margin] 
In the afternoon we had the most heavenly and delicious drive to Belcaro. What an afternoon, such sunshine, “such shapes of sky and plain!” 
In the evening we wrote our introduction to our Hampton Court Guide and I wrote my Linden story. 
Read Creighton and Vasari. 
Our quarrel was not serious. 
Tuesday, March 22, 1892, Siena [marked with an X to the right] 
Went to S. Agostino to see Perugino and Sodoma. 
Coming back to Perugino has all the charm of [0241] coming back to the prescribed ritual after no matter how great eloquence of Methodists and such. The well-known form, the reserve and dignity, and tested appropriateness more than make up for the originality in the other — e.g., this is my comparison, not Bernhard’s! Then we went to the Baptistry and Libraria of the Duomo and saw the Pinturicchios and one of the books by Liberale. It was a delightful morning. 
In the afternoon we went to the Poor House (to see a Balducci) and to Fonte Giusta, and then wandered about and ended up in the warm loggia of the cemetery where we watched through a long afternoon the changes of light on the hills and mountains. 
I wrote the Linden Story and B. the sketch of the Venetian School for the Hampton Court Guide. 
* Wednesday, March 23, 1892, Siena 
Went to the Municipio to see especially the Beccafumis. How surprisingly modern some of them are! 
Then to the Poor House to see a fresco of Beccafumi that Signor Frizzoni wrote to Bernhard about, asking if it might be a Peruzzi. 
Then to the Gallery, where we delighted in the charming Beccafumi, St. Catherine receiving the stigmata. Also the Paris Bordone. [0242] 
At 130 we started out with the horse and little trap and drove to S. Ansano in Dofana about 9 miles away. There we found a very nice Peruzzi in a dear little country church, a Madonna and Child, somehow recalling the decision and chic of Bronzino. 
We went to see a little octagonal chapel built by Peruzzi close by, said by Baedeker to contain a Pietro Lorenzetti. This, however, was taken to the Belle Arti ten years ago. We did not get back till 6.30. It was a delicious drive! 
In the evening we worked and read.
* Thursday, March 24, 1892, Pensione Tognazzi, Siena 
In the morning we went to the house of Catherine of Siena (built by Peruzzi), to the Baptistry and then to the Libraria del Duomo. There we looked over the illuminated Missals of Liberale. Then we looked at the Pinturicchios. 
After lunch, we went to have a last look at the Belle Arti, and then bought some photographs, and some little toys. Then we took a walk, ending up with another glimpse at the Sodoma, Balducci and Pacchia in San〈to〉 Spirito. 
In the evening worked and read as usual, and so endeth our happy week. 
Bernhard said it is as absurd to take our ideas of ordinary Roman thought and conversation from their orations, as to imagine that they always stood in the poses of their sculpture. [0243] 
Friday, March 25, 1892, 16 viale Principe Amadeo, Firenze 
We left Siena at 7.53, a glorious morning. 
B. read My Trivial Life and Misfortune and I read Creighton on the train, and finished the 2nd volume. 
We reached Empoli about 10, and leaving our baggage we went to explore the town. The result of our search was a Lorenzo Monaco and a possible small Masaccio in the Galleria del Duomo, and a marvellously beautiful St. Sebastian in marble by Rossellino and some pictures (which interested Bernhard) by Botticini’s father.
We walked to Pontormio, 1 kilometer away, and in the church there saw some (hitherto unnoted) Pontormos. We had some light pastry and Vermouth at a pastry cook’s, and then a plate of cold meat and some excellent coffee at the station, and then came on to Florence, arriving here at 2.30. 
Ray and Karin were delighted with their presents. Ray had a little headache, so I read her “The Dragon’s Teeth.” 
Then I went to see Gertrude, and found her no better. She has been going through various grapples with Miss Bliss and Julia. 
Emma tells me that Miss Bliss offered to take the children any afternoon while Emma wanted to go out. “Now’s your chance,” she said, “while Mrs. Costelloe’s away!!” Emma has found a young man, the chemist at the stores. He asked her to go to the Theatre with him on Monday and gave her his card. He is English. He said he had been watching for her to come back again. She is very much elated over her conquest. Julia has ‘fallen in love’ with the linen-draper in the Piazza Cavour. How funny the life of servants is!
