Saturday, March 26, 1892, Florence 
Rain beginning again. Met at Pitti. 
Wrote and read in afternoon. 
Lotto in evening. Story.
Sunday, March 27, 1892, Florence
Took Emma and the children to the Gallery in the morning. Karin was much bored. The only really delightful thing to her was climbing on the seats. Ray liked the picture stories and the two Heads of Medusa. But sculpture interested her much more, and even Karin went so far as to kiss the Boar’s snout.
In the afternoon I wrote and read to Ray and went to see Gertrude. 
Bernhard began his Preface to the Hampton Court Guide and wrote 3 hours. What a dear he is! He is getting really interested in it. 
In the evening we worked upon our Lotto. 
Both read Creighton vol. III. 
Wrote my story.
Monday, March 28, 1892, Florence
Pitti in the morning. 
B. wrote again for 3 hours, and read Eastlake’s Fine Arts. 
I finished Creighton Vol. III. 
We wrote our Lotto. 
I called on Miss Britten, who was out. 
B. called on Loeser.
* Tuesday, March 29, 1892, Florence
Uffizi in the morning. I tried copying ears, but without much success. 
In the afternoon Bernhard again wrote for three hours. 
We finished [0245] our Lotto in the evening and Bernhard finished Creighton and read Lady Eastlake on Michelangelo. 
I called on Gertrude. She bores me nearly to death. She seemed so honest at first, but now I see little but affectation of a peculiarly sickening kind because it calls itself “noble ideas.” Really she is old enough to drop that juvenile rot. 
I read Confessions d’un Amant by Prévost,
 a very poor affair. 
Wednesday, March 30, 1892, Florence
Uffizi in the morning. I felt rather ill, so Bernhard went on to the Pitti alone. I rested.
After luncheon he wrote for three hours. 
I went to see Gertrude and then wrote my story. 
I read Lady Eastlake on Michelangelo and Bernhard read Lorenzo di Medici by Reumont.
 
We worked on and finished ! our Giorgione in the evening. 
Bernhard is truly an angel about the Hampton Court Catalogue. When I showed him my mournful outburst of a few pages back, he decided to relieve my woe at any cost, though he didn’t at all believe in the affair. So he began to work. Now he says he really enjoys it. It is nice of him, how nice no one but I can know! 
He had a letter this morning from his friend Cram, accepting his article on Correggio, asking for one on the Venetians. 
