Thursday, March 31, 1892, Florence
Uffizi in the morning. Bernhard met Mrs. Bywater. 
I felt very ill. We read and loafed all the afternoon. I went to bed feeling ill. 
In the evening we dined with Loeser and he took us to the Opera to hear Saint-Saëns’ Sansone e Dalila, which was really good.
Friday, April 1, 1892, Florence 
Uffizi in the morning. 
B. came to lunch and wrote his Venetian introduction here, while I slept, again feeling ill. I had an awful headache during the afternoon and evening. 
* Saturday, April 2, 1892, Florence
I took the children to be photographed and then joined Bernhard in the Pitti. 
He had a letter from his friend which, after much discussion, turned the scales in favour of his going on to Paris. It made me feel very happy, for I hated to think of his missing the Salon. It doesn’t pay to miss a whole year of the wonderful time in France. The decline is likely to begin at almost any time. O I am very happy to think he is going! We each did our own writing in the afternoon, and then took a short walk together.
In the evening we went over our Mantegna [0247] and actually finished it! We were both pleased to find how good it already was. 
[marked with a blue crayon in left margin] Ray assumed a most heavenly and enchanting expression of face when she was sitting on my lap and the subject of cake was introduced. She looked as ecstatic as a little St. John adoring the infant Christ, as she described alternate layers of jam and chocolate and cream and sponge cake in this apotheosis of a gateau that her imagination offered to her inner eye. 
Sunday, April 3, 1892, Florence
Gertrude sent for me and then began the utterly nauseating and wearisome melodrama of Miss Bliss’ Return Ticket. At first Gertrude gave her 500 francs and said make your way home on that. I don’t care how. Today, Miss B. having sent her a rather heartless letter, Gertrude turned Indian giver. I advised her to let it go. She would worry herself into a fever, but having an utterly vacant mind she began brooding over all Miss Bliss’ misdeeds, which are truly legion, and so at last, on purely ideal principles of ‘“the perfectly Just Thing”, she determined to send Miss Bliss home her way and give the girl no choice as to route or time. 
Then I went to Bernhard’s and we went to the Pitti. There [0248] was more Gertrude in the afternoon. 
In the evening we read <in manuscript?> Edith Thomas’ stories and her essay on Lorenzo, which she had sent for my criticism. One story, “Faint Heart”, struck me as good. But the printed novel was Trash, and the historical essay poor to the last degree. It was an example of how a person acquires a reputation for learning by making a bad hash of a dozen (in her case it was about 3) good books. I supposed it made an impression on her relative because of the Mesopotamia sound of “Lorenzo” and “the Renaissance”. These words ring sweet in the ears of the semi-cultured, particularly in America. I wrote to her. 
Monday, April 4, 1892, Florence
More Gertrude rubbish all day. I must say I take Miss Bliss’ side, bad as she is. Gertrude is certainly responsible for a good deal of her badness.
Karin was feverish, and I had to have Ray. We took her to the Ricardi Palace, but she “didn’t enjoy it very much.” A timely visit to a cake-shop, however, prevented the expedition from being a failure. 
I took tea with Bernhard, after a pleasant little chat with Lady Albinia at Vieusseux’s.
Read [0249] his wonderfully clean and logical sketch of Venetian Art. 
Then I called on Jenny Cobden, who is now Mrs. Fisher-Unwin. I found her laced!, but agreeable. She says she is thoroughly disgusted with Liberal politics. 
In the evening we read Edith’s “Lorenzo”
 and jotted down a few obvious criticisms. It bored us both nearly to death. 
Tuesday, April 〈5〉, 1892, Florence
Gertrude had a hemorrhage as the result of her machinations against Miss Bliss, so the burden of unpleasantness fell on me. If Gertrude were not so ill, I would tell her what I think of her conduct. Since she has drawn me in, I would give myself the pleasure of speaking my mind. But she is too ill to bear it. Miss Bliss showed me a letter from Gertrude which amply justifies me in my belief that it is all Gertrude’s own fault. She completely turned Miss B.’s rather weak head with fulsome flattery and sickening talk. She said, “You have the fine strong spirit that conquers and commands”!! 
We went to the Uffizi and Pitti, and wrote as usual. 
Karin is worse, threatened with bronchitis. 
We worked on our Palma.
Dr. Baldwin came. He says he is very much less hopeful about Gertrude. Her Consumption is growing steadily worse. Poor girl! Poor girl! 
