Wednesday, April 6, 1892, Florence
[marked with an X in blue crayon to right] 
Uffizi and Bargello. Met Loeser and Parry. 
Karin ill, and all the afternoon flew by in doctor and medicine and nursing. Miss Britten called. 
In the evening we finished our Palma, and Bernhard finished Creighton. 
I told Parry that the Arundel Chromes
 are like opera tunes on a barrel organ. I must have taken this from Bernhard, I am sure. He is such a dear! He writes every day for three hours, in spite of the heat and general flabbyness of the weather. 
Thursday, April 7, 1892, Florence
Met at 10 at the Uffizi. After a while Mr. Parry joined us, and we looked at many things, chiefly portraits in the Uffizi and in the Pitti. 
Bernhard wrote, while I took care of Karin in the afternoon. Then Parry came and we discussed photographs. His great idea is somehow to wake Oxford up to a real study of the Renaissance. He is a nice boy. 
In the evening we went over and finished our Tintoretto, and read poetry, chiefly Matthew Arnold. 
* Friday, April 8, 1892, Florence
We went to Prato with Parry, and after luncheon drove over to Poggio a Cajano. We missed our train on the way back and drove home. We all enjoyed it very much, and Bernhard and I liked Parry. He is a very “English”, that is to say Protestant, Catholic – very – he even believes in Divorce! And he hates the [0251] Jesuits almost as much as Bernhard does. 
We were pretty tired in the evening.
Today began the thrice accursed Reign of Fleas! 
It was a keen delight to see the Pontormo at Poggio a Caiano.
Saturday, April 9, 1892, Florence 
Finished our catalogue notes at the Uffizi. Then we quarrelled a little, but not seriously. I called on Edith Kendall. 
Nana was dead tired, so I took care of the children in the afternoon, till Mr. Parry came. 
We all three went over photographs, etc., and Mr. Parry, English-wise, began to abuse his relatives, particularly his mother, and his younger brother, who is addicted to gambling. 
The evening was largely taken up with stupid business notes, but (after a quarrel!) we read what Bernhard had written about Tintoretto and Paolo and the Bassani. I found it excellent. 
Gertrude is dreadful. She would be deeply indignant, oh! absolutely outraged, if you said she was not intellectual. 
Here is a list of books she marked as the ones she would like to get from Vieusseux’s:
Life of Louisa Alcott
Letters of T. Carlyle and his Wife
Life of Browning 
English Life thro’ Yankee Eyes
Florentine Nights, Heine
True Stories from Italian History, Harrison
Social Diseases and Worse Remedies, Huxley
-
The Lily of the Arno, Johnson Kelly
 
Louisa of Prussia
Life of Edmund Kean
Vittoria Colonna, Lawley
Love Letters of Famous Men and Women
Letters of Mary Shelley
Lives of 12 Good Men
Mary Queen of Scots and the Casket Letters
-
