* Wednesday, April 13, 1892, Florence
After helping Bernhard a little with his packing — over which he is about as nervous as a cat! — I did the polite 〈visit〉 to the Lady Albinia Hobart-Hampton, and got pretty much bored as a reward for my pains. She is talkable to, that is all. Still, that is a great deal when you remember how horribly hard it is to get most people to talk impersonally at all. She thought Bronzino’s pictures ‘very clever, and all that you say,’ but “so inartistic”, a curious phrase. I do wonder what “artistic” means. I suppose it is the thing people mean when they say “it is as pretty as a picture.”
Bernhard came to lunch, and we went on with his Venetian School. 
Then we took a walk in the rain and had tea with Loeser, who was hiding away, having left Juliet and Mrs. Sumner under the impression that he was going to Perugia today. He said Juliet was much nicer yesterday. She had evidently changed her tactics, but too late! 
A few days ago he said Mrs. Way was surrounded by a whirl of society. Now he says she sees no one, and Mr. Way keeps a jealous guard over her and won’t allow her to exercise her natural gifts for flirting. I suppose some catastrophe mild or violent has happened, as was indeed inevitable with such [0255] a reckless woman. It is a comfort to find the explanation of certain things in her conduct, and I think I have found it. She feeds upon “highly spiced” French novels, novels which do nothing but ring the changes upon the ecstacy [sic] of the supreme moment of sexual passion. This, I am pretty sure, is a fiction created by men novellists, [sic] who no doubt are taken in by the cleverness of the people whom they hire (in one way or another) to give them so much rapture for so much pay. So they believe women feel as men do, and even more. I do not believe it, and I think Mrs. Way is taken in by all this writing, and thinks there is such a thing for women to feel, and that, since she does not feel it with her husband, she might perhaps feel it with another man. Hence her keen interest in the subject, and her evident longing to have a lover. 
Huysmans, in Un Ménage, describes such a case, and of course the woman felt no otherwise, before she had got her lover. Not loving him at all, of course the experience was dust and ashes to her. This really explains many more things in Mrs. Way’s behaviour than I have written here. It explains why she said several time to B. that although she loved her husband of course, yet he did not really satisfy her, and she felt that she could love some one else, himself for example, more completely and wildly.
In the evening Bernhard had a bad headache. 
