Thursday, April 14, 1892, Florence
I helped Bernhard pack for several hours, and then, on the way home, we stopped in to look at the Andrea frescoes in the Santa Annunziata. 
Mr. Hezeltine strolled through while we were there, doing his duty by Andrea by spending about thirty seconds before each picture. He went away looking wonderfully virtuous. 
Edith Kendall came to luncheon at 1.30, and we talked till 7. She was quite enchanting, a delightful specimen of America at its average best, a girl without much culture, but no prejudices, having been brought up a Unitarian. I really enjoyed her. We took a little drive in the Cascine, where the young budding leaves against the dark stems made an enchanting effect. Edith’s charm is that she forces you to tell almost no lies. 
Bernhard walked up to San Miniato with Loeser, who uttered the profound remark that after the disappearance of Christianity the cult of the Family would be the popular religion. It is about like suggesting that after Democracy Feudalism will come back. 
In the evening we went on with our “Venetian School.” 
Bernhard read Hennequin’s
 Critique scientifique and found some of his own pet ideas foreshadowed there. 
We did not quarrel. 
I asked Ray today [0257] if she was glad to be alive. “I can’t tell you,” she replied … “That is the most difficult question in the world.”
O, I am glad to be alive, so glad!!
* Friday, April 15, 1892, Florence
Met Costa and Richter and Loeser in the Uffizi, and then went to see an interesting picture by Domenico Morone and assistants, which belongs to Dr. Richter. 
Mme Zucchelli and her daughter called, and we went to look at a house for next year, unsuitable. 
Bernhard called on Miss Britten and Miss Loope. 
Left a card on Mrs. Way. 
I had a little headache in the evening, but we went on with our work. 
No letters to Senda after July 11, 1889 until April 16, 1892:  from here on comparisons can be made 
Saturday, April 16, 1892, Florence
A last look at the Uffizi. Afterwards much packing and a little work on the Venetians. 
We had tea at Bernhard’s room, and then left cards on Miss Britten (I) and Miss Madeleine Fleury (B.) who were both out. 
Worked in the evening. 
Sunday, April 17, 1892, Easter Sunday, Florence
We visited various churches in the morning and lunched together at the Toscana. 
Then we came back and worked till 5, and Bernhard went to find Miss Fleury. He said she and her mother were thoroughly French and delightfully impersonal in their conversation. They asked him, however, what he was doing. When he replied, “Applying [0258] Darwin to Painting”, they laughed politely in such a way that he felt sure they had never heard of Darwin. 
In the meantime I called on Mlle Miranda, and then (by special invitation) on Mrs. Way, who again flirted with me in so utterly bewitching a manner that I quite lost my head. She is adorable for an occasional tête-à-tête. 
In the evening we worked and Costa called.
Monday, April 18, 1892, Hotel de Russie, Viareggio 
I came here with Emma and the children, while Bernhard (very wisely!) remained behind to have a last look at the pictures and to show them to Mme Fleury. 
The journey was awful. We had 18 packages, some of them HUGE!! The sea was roaring in the sand when we came, and the wind blew a hurricane. When you forget the discomfort, it was very beautiful.
What a sham it is to think of us richer people as really more refined than poorer people. I never felt it more keenly (though I have often felt it) than tonight. Emma walked out with me to the other hotel where I engaged a room for Bernhard. “Why doesn’t he stay at our hotel?” she asked. “Mr. Smith thinks it better for us to stay in different hotels,” I replied. “Well, I never!” she exclaimed, [0259] quite astonished. “Do you think so too, Madam?” she asked. “No,” I said. “Of course not.” “Neither do I,” she said. “When I went for my holiday to Brighton with my young man, we stayed in longings together and had the same sitting room. It was all right.”
And to think that the advantage we get from being “superior” is that our women can’t be trusted as much as women like Emma.
Bernhard very much enjoyed his visit to the Uffizi with Mlle Fleury. She told him that painters now-a-days have their architecture and perspective all drawn for them by people especially trained to it. 
* Tuesday, April 19, 1892, Viareggio 
Bernhard came at 9.30, and I met him at the station. The history of our day is walks interspersed with writing our Venetians — or rather the other way about. 
It was gloriously sunny in the afternoon, and after a rest, we walked in the pine forest. The children were enchanted with the sand and the waves. 
