Wednesday, April 20, 1892, Hotel de Russie, Viareggio
Wrote and walked. 
Bernhard finished Les Soeurs Vatard by Huysmans
 and began Marthe.
 
Thursday, April 21, 1892, Viareggio
Finished our Venetians on the beach in the morning. 
Walked in the woods in the afternoon. 
Type-wrote in evening. I tried to cheat Bernhard, but repented. 
* Friday, April 22, 1892, Albergo di Corona, Lucca
We came over in the 11 o’clock train and lurked about the town all the afternoon, dropping in at all the churches and the gallery, and taking a general view. 
Towards sunset we walked all about the lovely town walls. 
Saturday, April 23, 1892, Lucca [an X in blue crayon marked above]
Took notes on the pictures in the morning, and after lunch in the gallery. Then we took the steam tram to Ponte a Mariano, and there made a bargain with a reluctant cabby to take us up to La Pieve di Brancoli. After declaring that he would not walk with us there for four francs, he drove us there for three, but it was indeed a climb! At the top we found a quaint 12th century church, with rude [0261] stone figures, like children’s figures of men, carved on the lintels. 
[an example sketched in, four lines high] 
It had also an interesting font and a pulpit in the Pisan style, and behind the High Altar an excellent terra cotta plaque of St. George and the dragon, of the della Robbia School. The dragon was quite Japanese in colour, and in form too. Our visit aroused wild interest, and we were invited in to the priest’s house where we partook of wine and honey cakes, no doubt such fare as they ate in Homer’s day. They asked us if we came from Lucca, evidently the greatest metropolis they could imagine, and as far away as they could conveniently think of. The elder priest was fat and Boccaccioesque, and took snuff. His favourite was a young chaplain who had a “gran’ingenio” for languages, and was actually learning English. He even said for our benefit, and to astonish the others, “Are you En-gleesh?” and “Good Bye.” The jovial priest explained the crown of priests gathered in his parlour by the fact that it was a festival in his church, and they always visited each other [0262] whenever there was a festival anywhere. They had preserved Signor Frizzoni’s memory from two years before, and no doubt will preserve ours for many years to come before another stranger comes their way. Frizzoni they described a coming from Udine, and being a Professor in Rome!
Sunday, April 24, 1892, Viareggio 
We went to the Duomo and to the gallery in the morning, finished our notes and had lunch. 
Then I came here and B. went to Pisa. I thought I should enjoy a long afternoon with the children, but no — their life is too much grown-up life in miniature — the pleasure of every moment spoiled by an incipient quarrel or dispute. All the other person is good for is to arrange terms of ‘peace’ and that is very weary. 
I finished Les Soeurs Vatard. As Bernhard says, Huysmans is “unmitigated life.”
* Monday, April 25, 1892, Hotel Washington, Pisa
Arrived at 11 and went straight to the gallery. 
After lunch we went to the Duoma and the Campo Santo. I actually began to get interested in the Lorenzetti! 
In the evening we wrote our Bassano.
Bernhard finished and I began and finished Huysmans’ earliest work Marthe, and he went on with von Reumont’s Lorenzo dei Medici.
 
I had an awful [0263] attack of pain in the night, attended with that common delusion that the covers were slipping off. I took some brandy which sent me to sleep. It was the severest pain I have ever had except child birth, or when the dentist is actually touching a nerve in a tooth. 
Tuesday, April 26, 1892, Albergo Nazionale, Volterra
We visited several churches, etc., 〈in Pisa〉 in the morning. 
At Santa Cat〈e〉rina, in the seminary attached to it, we found a wonderful altar piece in many compartments by Simone Martini. It was half hidden, and dreadfully neglected. Bernhard roused the head of the Seminary, an unassuming young priest, to great interest in it, and he promised to clean it and set it up together in the form of an altar. We saw, too, some wonderful Ghirlandaios, best of all a St. Rock, of whom no one makes mention. 
Then we came here, a 3 hours railway journey, with 2 hours staging at the end. 
I read a stupid American novel, finished my Creighton and began his Cardinal Wolsey.
 Bernhard read von Reumont. 
When we reached here, we loitered about the town for a while, and dropped in at the Duomo, and saw some most interesting pictures, among them a fine Signorelli. 
We had a nice dinner, seasoned with hunger, and in the evening we polished up the Bassano and read. 
