* April 27, 1892, Albergo Nazionale, Volterra
We spent the morning sight-seeing and taking notes on pictures. In the afternoon we began to write our “Correggio” for Hampton Court, and quarrelled atrociously over it! 
However, after a Vermouth we were in a better temper, and it went like magic! Bernhard discovered Correggio’s “Law.” After that the interest of working it out became absorbing. We finished writing it. [marked in the left margin in blue crayon] 
Thursday, April 28, 1892, Volterra 
Finished our notes in the Duomo, and walked out in the rain to San Giusto, but found no picture. Crowds of little boys gathered silently about us, like cherubs or putti winging about a Madonna. [marked in the left margin in blue crayon] 
In the afternoon we walked to S. Girolamo, a lovely walk through lanes all fragrant with the heavy rain. We found some interesting pictures and della Robbia altar-pieces. 
In the evening we printed the Bassani and Correggio. 
I read Charles V
 and Bernhard Lorenzo de’ Medici. 
Friday, April 29, 1892, Albergo Leon[e] Bianco, San Gimignano
Our friend, Vittorio Caparini, came to drive us over here, 30 kilometers, up and down hills. Such a nice man, a “firio unico” of “Volterra” as [0265] he called these words, changing the l’s to r’s.
On the way Bernhard gave him one of his cigarettes. He did not like it much, and said, “È lo stesso di dar confetti al bove.” The Volterra hotel was one of the best I ever was in (see Bourget’s Sensations d’Italie).
Arrived here. I felt much below par, but we wandered about a little in the Municipio, San Agostino, and the Duomo. 
Bernhard is beginning to be eaten up with an absorbing interest in the XIV Century Siena painters! 
* Saturday, April 30, 1892, San Gimignano
We took notes in the Duomo in the morning, and in the afternoon walked out to a little Church about 3 miles out, called S. Andrea. There we found a fine Benozzo Gozzoli. The whole population of the village came in to the Church to watch us, silently but with determined curiosity. The little priest was too shy to invite us to have any refreshment. The walk was enchanting beyond words. 
We nearly finished our Titian in the afternoon and evening. 
