Monday, May 2, 1892, Hotel Pellegrino, Bologna [an * deleted] 
Arrived at Florence 10.30. 
Bank, etc., etc. 
Said goodbye to Gertrude. It was hard to listen to her vapourings about Julia’s “sympathy with childhood,” etc., etc., when all the women of the Pension had besieged me on the stairs to tell me that Julia was very cruel and kept the children crying all day long! 
We came on at 2.30 to Bologna, with some nice Americans, and had a little look around the splendid town. 
* Tuesday, May 3, 1892, Bologna
Churches in the morning and the gallery in the afternoon. Then a little rest (for I was dead tired) and another stroll. Saw Palazzo Bevilacqua. 
Bernhard is reading Michelet’s History of France,
 the volume on the Renaissance. I am reading Symonds’ Catholic Reaction.
 
Finished our Titian in the evening. 
* Wednesday, May 4, 1892, Bologna
Went to Ferrara for the day to see the gallery and an exhibition of pictures from private collections. This was all worth seeing as it made us acquainted with Coltellini, and there was a splendid Tura among them. 
Bernhard went [0268] on with his Michelet, and I read La Fille Eliza by Edmond de Goncourt, a depressing psychological study, which tastes too much of the note-book to be a really great novel.
* Thursday, May 5, 1892, Hotel Pellegrino, Bologna 
Went to many Churches in the morning and to the Gallery in the afternoon. Afterwards we walked out to S. Michele in Bosco, and then along woody paths where the nightingales were singing their bravest. A lovely day. 
Wrote our Bissolo in the evening. 
Talked to some Boston ladies at dinner, who adored Guido Reni.
Friday, May 6, 1892, Hotel d’Italia, Modena
Came at 10.35 to Modena and saw the Duomo. 
After lunch we went to the Gallery, still unhung after ten years of storage! and reviled in the Dossos. We discovered a Licinio.
Saturday, May 7, 1892, Hotel de Roma, Cremona 
A good hotel. [crossed out, ‘No’ written above]
It was pouring in the morning, but we conscientiously “did” Piacenza, enjoying particularly the architecture of the little church of San Sisto. 
Then we came to Cremona and had a peep at the Duomo before dark. 
Wrote our “Dosso”. 
