For a few days I forgot to keep a record, but the programme was nearly always the same: pictures, lunch, a rest, and Burke and Maude in the evening. 
Burke took us again to Les Troyens
 which we enjoyed even more than before. Bernhard developed his “Law of Schock.”
Monday, June <20> [19], 1892, Paris 
We spent the day with Mr. Burke and his friend Mr. Irwick, first at the New Salon and then at the two Duran〈d〉-Ruel’s collections. Bôcher was with us. 
The “Mikes” arrived in the evening, to stay with me, and after dinner came a dreadful letter from mother, urging me to go home and work for Frank’s election — !! It nearly broke my heart.
x Tuesday, June <21> [20], 1892, Paris 
Answered mother in the morning, [0275] while Bernhard took Burke to the Luxembourg. 
Took Michael Field (Miss Cooper and Miss Bradley) to the new Salon after lunch, and then came home and rested. They were overcome with joy.
In the evening they went with Mr. Burke and Mr. Irwick to Les Troyens.
Wednesday, June <22> [21], 1892, Paris
We studied the Sienese and Florentine pictures in the Gallerie [sic] de Sept Mètres with Burke in the morning, and after lunch took the Mikes to the New Salon. 
Burke came to tea, and after dinner Maude came and played to us on her violin and told us any quantity of funny stories. One was of a man who exaggerated fearfully. A friend remonstrated with him. He said he was very sorry, he did not mean to, he was carried away by excitement, but he would be grateful if the friend would give him gentle reminders, a poke or kick, if he [0276] caught him at it. So his friend promised to remind him. Soon after the man began to describe a wonderful building he had seen when he was “abroad”. “It was 2,000 feet broad and 5,000 feet long”. Here his friend gave him a violent kick, “and two feet high!” But I cannot remember all the stories. 
We said goodbye to Maude, who was going to Brittany.
I wrote to mother and B.F.C.C., full and honest letters.
Thursday, June 23, 1892, Paris 
More work in the Louvre with Burke all morning. 
After lunch we went to see the Puvis de Chavannes at the Nouvelle Sorbonne. It left me cold this time. 
Then I came home and Bernhard took Burke to the Old Salon. 
Florence Ayling called on me. 
Burke came to tea. 
At luncheon Bernhard said that “Michael” wrote of love as Lionardo painted rocks, the rocky idealization of a dweller in the plain. 
