Thursday, July 14, 1892, Paris 
We are reading aloud Creighton’s clear little book on “The Elizabethan Age”.
 
The Mikes went yesterday.
. . . 
… “The one element thee seems to leave out is thy duty to other people. I mean the fact that in marrying thee took upon thyself certain duties towards thy husband and children that it seems to me ought to be fulfilled at whatever sacrifice to thyself. (!!!) Of course these may be old-fashioned ideas of mine, but such as they are, I cannot get rid of them. It seems to me thee ought as a wife to help Frank forward in his plans of life as far as thee possibly can and the〈e〉 ought to make things as easy for him as possible.” 
… and now for myself. I recognize all thee says, and have no doubt it is all true. But the fact is I was brought up to believe that it was a wife’s duty to love her husband, and if she could not really love him, it was her duty to pretend she did. All the trend of my whole religious experience until within the last few years was to make me believe that as a wife the first [0282] and foremost duty of my life was to make my husband happy and to minister to his peculiarities and yield to his demands. I can see now that this was a very exaggerated view, but at the time it seemed to be the only Divine view —— (!!) and my life has been one long struggle to conform to it. I was taught that if I pretended to love, the love would come, and every rising of independence in my nature seemed to me a direct and wilful [sic] sin. It was my very desire to do right that led me into the things that seem to thee so wrong. I have always deplored it unspeakably, but have thought it was innate wickedness in me that made things what they were. I cannot expect thee to understand me, but this may perhaps account to thee for two things: (I) my own life of submission to shams; and (II) my determination never to give you any false consciences if I could help it. In both I have been extreme no doubt, and had I lived in this generation, things would have been clearer to me. But this is my excuse, such as it is … 
There is one difficulty I have always had to contend with that thee is spared, and that is father’s nerves. At the least opposition he has always become so nervous that one’s pity was at once excited, and it seemed worthwhile to do anything to save him from such suffering. Many a night in the past I have been waked up by hearing him leave the house half dressed in the middle of the night and walking up and down the garden, or, in the country, up and down in the roads for hours together. And I never knew whether he would not [0283] be brought home from these wanderings dead. Sometimes he would get wild and dash his head against the wall and groan and cry out in apparent agonies of distress. And finding that opposition of any kind, even difference of opinion would produce these spells, I gradually became convinced that he was not to be treated as a reasonable being. I do not feel as if our cases were at all similar. I sold myself, as thee calls it, as much out of pity as out of a desire to keep a home for my children. Some day, if I can ever tell thee the story, I think thee will thyself say I could hardly have done differently. But for my sticking to him, I believe he would to-day have been in an insane asylum; and, with my views of duty, I could not have forsaken him on account of his health, apart from every other consideration. My life has not had only simple issues, but many complications arising from my ideas (in some respects mistaken) of duty, and from father’s health.”
. . . 
[ENGLAND]
Friday, July 15, 1892
We crossed, via Dieppe, from Paris to London. 
Bernhard went to join his sister at 16 North Street. 
Saturday, July 16, 1892, London
Bernhard’s first lecture, to a fairly large and very much interested class. He did well. 
I came to Friday’s Hill. 
