〈Tuesday,〉 August 9, 1892, Birch Hall, Windlesham 
I was ill with inflammation of the bowels and worry combined. In fact, when I signed the Deed I was ill, too ill not to be a coward. 
Afterwards I spent a long time in bed at Haslemere, suffering a great deal of pain. Ray was very sweet. 
Bernhard stayed with his sister and Miss Jordan in London, and then with the Burkes here. Then, on Mr. Burke’s invitation, I came here. What a pleasure it has been to see Bernhard. He is more dear to me that ever. 
His sister is here also, and she hates me, as Alys and Logan hate Berenson. 
[no entries from Aug. 10 to Aug. 15] 
[FRANCE]
x Tuesday, August 16 [15], 1892, Hotel Dauphin, Rouen 
Crossed from Newhaven. 
How good it was to get away. It has been a horrible month in England, but it is over. 
* Wednesday, August 17 [16], 1892, Hotel du Grand Cerf, Nantes
I was surprisingly well, and we went about to see the sights, the Cathedral and St. Ouen, the back of which outside we particularly enjoyed, 〈and〉 the Musée, where we found a Longhi [0287] and 3 pradelle by Gerino da Pistoia and a picture by Balducci (called Botticelli), and the Puvis decorative paintings which are not to be compared with those at Amiens. 
Then we came here. Read Liaisons Dangereuses.
x Thursday, August 18 [17], 1892,  14, rue de la Grande Chaumière, Paris
Saw the cathedral of Nantes and came here.
x Friday, August 19 [18], 1892, Paris
Went to the Louvre and began our notes. 
I was not very well, and I felt very cross at meeting Bôcher unexpectedly. Bernhard lunched with him. I decided not to bear malice against him for his garrulity, so I wrote him a peace-making note.
Saturday, August 20, 1892, Paris
Notes in the Louvre. Bôcher came to tea.
Sunday, August 21, 1892, Paris
Notes in the Louvre. I began to feel ill. 
Finished Creighton’s Simon de Montfort.
 
Monday, August 22, 1892, Paris 
I was much worse. But we went to Durand-Ruel’s with Bôcher and saw a new Besnard, Degas, etc. 
Went to the Exposition des Arts de la Femme, and amused ourselves over the old fashions.
