* Saturday, September 10, 1892, Paris
Louvre in morning, Hapgood and Thiis. Raphael and School. 
Met Giovanni Costa. 
Wrote to Rukhmabai. 
Giovanni came to tea. He told us about the original of des Esseintes in Huysmans’ À Rebours, Le Marquis de Montesquieu, who has just published Vol. II of his verses called Chauve-Souris,
 the first volume never having appeared!
Dined with Hapgood who came and spent the evening. 
Bernhard felt ill from an ice. 
* Sunday, September 11, 1892, Paris
Louvre. Thiis and Hapgood. Chiefly Titians. 
Wrote to Maude and Michael Field, and finished article on l’Exposition des Arts de la Femme and sent it off. 
Monday, September 12, 1892, Paris
Met Hapgood at lunch and went out to St. Cloud. Enjoyed ourselves immensely. He tried to defend George Meredith’s poetry. 
Very tired at night. 
Tuesday, September 13, 1892, Paris
Packed in the morning and quarrelled like two geese. 
Met Hapgood and Thiis at the Louvre at 2 and went to see the Spitzer [0295] collection (33 rue Villejuste). We were simply overwhelmed with the Tanagras, particularly the marvellous groups, a youth and maiden and a man in a boat (Charon?), a Nymphe and Satyr dancing, etc., etc. 
Afterwards we had an ice-cream with Hapgood and a drive in the Bois. 
Then the train at 9. I took sulfonal
 and slept like a top, till: 
[ITALY]
x Wednesday, September 14, 1892,  Hotel Centrale, Turin
We arrived here at 2. We were both dead tired. After washing up, we went to the Gallery, but it was too late to get it. We strolled down to the Po, dead, dead tired! 
Read Goncourt’s Soeur Philomène.
 Bernhard read La religieuse.
Thursday, September 15, 1892, Turin
Gallery from 10-1. Took notes. After lunch the Accademia. Then we went to the Superga and walked down. 
Sent the Deed of Separation to Mr. Arford, the Solicitor, with a letter. 
* Friday, September 16, 1892, Turin
Finished Gallery notes in the morning. 
After lunch went to the Museo Civico and [0296] saw the Missal of Cardinal della Rovere with miniatures by some painter extraordinarily close to the author of Lady Eastlake’s little pictures. Found an Antonio Vivarini
 there too. 
After a rest, we went to the Cathedral. 
Wrote to Lady Eastlake after dinner. 
Saturday, September 17, 1892,  Hotel della Croce Bianca, Varallo 
Left Turin 8.30 and reached Novara at 10.30. Saw the Gaudenzio
 in San Gaudenzio, and in the Duomo, also the Lavinis.
Came on to Varallo at 1.10 reaching here about 4. Took a peep at the Gaudenzios.
 Bernhard was not so much enchanted by them as he was two years ago.
I was rather disconsolate with sore-throat and general dilapidation.
Bernhard read 〈Diderot’s〉 Le neveau de Rameau
 and I read 〈Diderot’s〉 Jacques le Fataliste et son Maître.
x Sunday, September 18, 1892, Varallo
Finished Jacques le fataliste after enjoying it almost as much as Sterne’s Sentimental Journey.
 
Bernhard read 〈Potapenko’s〉 Le Roman d’un homme raisonnable.
 He finds in the author, Potapen[c]ko, the influence of Ibsen.
We went in the morning to San Francesco and studied the frescoes. Then we took a walk up the mountain stream, and I had a delicious swim in a deep green pool, and a sun-bath on a secluded beach.
In the afternoon we walked out to San Marco in the hope of finding my opera glasses which I had left on a seat outside [0297] the Church. Not finding them, we walked in to the house of the Sacristan, and knocked up the woman who had let us into the Church. She and her husband and her children and a horde of friends came out with a candle. When we got to the seat, she began a long and animated description of having seen a boy go by and snatch up something which she thought was a purse, and which, when she came up he “fut’ in tasca.” At this word her husband gave her a nudge, and the whole party burst into laughter. Fresh from Diderot, I understood the joke, and could not help laughing too! 
A railway man joined the group, and he took my card and said he knew the boy and would get it and send it on. Then we all parted with hand-shakings and compliments, and we came back while the party with their candle remained a long time on the spot acting the scene over again and studying my card. The dialect is hard to understand. Bernhard says it is like trying to read fine print with very dusty glasses. 
I read Oliver Cromwell by F. W. Cornish,
 B. Liaisons dangereuses.
Monday, September 19, 1892, Albergo Concordia, Bergamo
Left Varallo at 9 and Novara at 11.35, reaching Milan at 1.10. 
After lunch we spent a very short hour and a half in the Brera and then came on at 4.30 to Bergamo. 
Here, letters from London started us talking over our difficulties, which made us both very unhappy, or rather, stirred up the unhappiness there was in us. 
