x Tuesday, September 20, 1892, Albergo Italia, Bergamo
Moved here for quiet. 
Spent an hour in San Bartolommeo looking at the Lotto. 
After lunch read our article on Lotto, rested, and went to Gallery. 
Finished Oliver Cromwell and Liaisons Dangereuses. 
Wrote letters in evening. 
Wednesday, September 21, 1892, Bergamo
Saw the Picinelli collection in the morning. Madame Picinelli was charmingly affable, such a lovely house, such pictures, her children, her own two nice daughters, money, respectability. I was tempted to envy her, but was saved by that spirit in us which makes us reason things about till we become equal to anyone. 
Then we went to San Spirito, and after lunch to the Gallery where we wrote a good deal of our article on the Morelli Collection. 
In the evening we wrote and Bernhard finished Liaisons dangereuses and I read Mrs. Creighton’s Sir Walter Rale〈i〉gh.
 
Thursday, September 22, 1892, Bergamo
A very black day on account of our worries. But we did enjoy writing in the Gallery [0299] both in the morning and afternoon, and working over it in the evening. The Secretary of the Academy took us to see some further pictures at Signor Picinelli’s (copies of Titian and Savoldo), and to see a very fine Moroni at Signor Locatelli’s. 
Finished Sir Walter Raleigh. Bernhard read Creighton’s Papacy.
 
Friday, September 23, 1892, Bergamo
Another black day. I felt very ill. 
We went to the Gallery and wrote, and in the afternoon to Signor Baglioni’s, where we saw some interesting pictures. 
In the evening we wrote. 
I read Mrs. Creighton’s Duke of Marlborough.
 
Saturday, September 24, 1892, Bergamo
Very tired after an almost sleepless night. 
Went to the Duomo, the Colleone Chapel and to see Lotto’s fascinating intarsias in Santa Maria Maggiore. 
Wrote home about my affairs and went out to Alzano and saw the Palmesque Lotto there. 
Packed. 
Finished the Duke of Marlborough and read some of Diderot’s Contes. Bernhard read Jacques le fataliste, and the time-table! 
— O Ray, how can I give thee up!
