Wednesday, October 5, 1892, Albergo Monaco, Venice
Met Sperrys at 10, and went with them to San Salvador, San Giovanni Grisostomo, Santi Apostoli, San Felice, Santa Maria del Orto, and the Gesuiti. They are rather desolating; they want to get out of a church the instant they have looked about once, particularly the mother, who does not revere Bernhard’s opinion as the daughter does. 
After lunch we went to the Palazzo Grassi and saw the incomparable Longhis.
 They are such kindly comments on his own day, full of genial sympathy with all its amusements and foibles. There is no trace of haughtiness or sternness. He is in a way Hogarth’s double, but with sympathy instead of satire. His figures are all loveable, sweet, gracious, really aristocratic. As painting, it is really superb, and I know nowhere finer decoration. The harmony of colour is delicious, all kept in as perfect tone as a modern master. 
After seeing them, we went to the Carmine and the Scuola, and then home by the Lagoon. 
In the evening we all went out to hear the singing under the Rialto. It was full moon. 
Thursday, October 6, 1892, Venice
A rainy day. 
We met the Sperrys in San Marco and went to the Palazzo Reale and the Correr, but it was really too dark to see anything [0307] to advantage. The Sperrys were absolutely desolating. They grow more so every time one sees them. Immensely rich, and travelling without taking the least pleasure in anything, they are simply the prey of all the human sharks in the shape of waiters and people with things to sell who cross their paths. Aesthetic enjoyment is utterly unknown to them. All they want to know is the subject of a picture. Their curiosity is insatiable, because it comes from absolute ennui and lack of interest. The girl is not so bad, because she is young. But the mother weights on her young life like the Old Man of the Sea. She won’t let her read anything but the things she read when she was young: Dickens, Thackeray, George Eliot, Scott, etc. In short, the poor young creature is absolutely starving in the midst of intellectual plenty. Alas! How many mothers are like that! 
After lunch we went to the Accademia, as happy as larks to be away from people whom pictures bore. We never enjoyed the pictures so much. 
Then we came back and had tea, and Bernhard finished reading aloud Vol. II of Creighton, while I did some sewing. 
Miss Jordan sent him some American poems, The Old Swimmin’ Hole and ’leven More Poems by James Whitcomb Riley,
 scarcely distinguishable from tame prose but for (so-called) dialect spelling and halting rhymes. There is no life in them. 
Called on Sperry in the evening and said goodbye to them. 
