Tuesday, October 11, 1892, Venice
My money came, but less than half of what I expected, which cast a gloom over our plans and over us.
We went to S. Zaccaria to negociate [sic] about an old picture frame we went to get for Burke. 
Then we went to the Seminario, and I being tired came in, while Bernhard went to the Doge’s Palace. 
After lunch we went to the Academy. 
Then Bernhard concluded his purchase of the frame and I added to my book, which I shall call “The Book”. 
Read Robertson and Eastlake. 
Bernhard wrote to Maude. 
Wednesday, October 12, 1892, Venice
Gallery in morning and Doge’s Palace in the afternoon. 
Bernhard sent off the frame to Burke after much trouble. 
I finished Charles V. 
Packed and wrote in the evening. 
[ROMAGNA, LE MARCHE, TUSCANY, UMBRIA]
Thursday, October 13, 1892, Hotel San Marco, Ravenna
Arrived in Padua at 10. Saw Santa Giustina and the splendid Paolo,
 the Santo, and the Gallery. Then Bernhard discovered an Alvise Vivarini, and I a Licinio. He also found that Speranza’s pictures (last year’s attributions) were done by Filippo da Verona, a sad discovery!
Then we went to the Arena and saw the Giottos and came in by the 3 o’clock train, arriving at 7.30. 
I read Morley’s Diderot,
 written in a vulgar newspaper style, but very interesting. 
[0309a] * Friday, October 14, 1892, Hotel San Marco, Ravenna
Went to the Duomo and the Pinacoteca and the Museo Byzantino in the morning. Discovered an unfinished Ercole Roberti. 
In the afternoon we drove to S. Maria di Porto Fuori, S. Apollinare in Classe, and the Rotunda [sic] (Tomb of Theodora), and went to San Vitale. Bernhard then strolled around looking at palaces while I rested. 
In the evening I worked and Bernhard read Burckhardt on Romanesque architecture. I finished Vol. I of Morley’s Diderot.
It gives me a curious despair about the improvement in the lot of women, since I, who am (presumably) in the van, find it such a struggle to choose definitely between being a person and being a mother. I know that all that is personal in me, all that means self-development, real education, knowledge, enjoyment, is with Bernhard. With Ray I could not help sinking to mere instinctive motherhood, that is, with Ray and without Bernhard, the only possible present condition. Yet even knowing this with certainty, the struggle against the chains of womanhood, the inside chains, is a terribly hard one. Still, if laws were just to women, there need not be a quarter 〈of〉 the struggle. 
[0309b] Saturday, October 15, 1892, Hotel Masini, Forlì
Went to S. Giovanni Evangelista, S. Ap〈ollinare〉 Nuovo, S. Maria in Porto (beautiful Renaissance architecture), S. Agatha, S. Francesco, Dante’s Tomb and Santo Spirito in the morning.
In the afternoon went to S. Domenico, S. Vitale, and the Tomb of Galla Placidia in the afternoon. What wonderful mosaics in her tomb, what decoration, what sense of colour, what drawing, what appropriateness! We were enchanted. 
Then at 4.40 we came to Forlì by steam tram reaching here at 6.30. Found in my dressing table a paper written in English, “Look out for yourself tonight, Sherlock Holmes”, but after enquiry of the hotel people decided that it must be a “drummer’s” practical joke. Perhaps, however, it meant the fleas, which are hopping about the beds. I caught two on me when I undressed. I am literally eaten alive, and nothing does any good. I am saturated with the camphor which is sewed all over my clothes, and the fleas seem to like me the more, even though I bathe in camphorated water every day!! 
