Sunday, October 16, 1892, Aquila d’Oro, Rimini 
Started out at 8.15 (after breakfasting for 2d each), saw S. Mercuriale, the Duomo, S. Biagio and the Pinacoteca. 
Took the 12.59 train to Faenza, where we saw first La Magione with frescoes by Girolamo da Treviso, the Duomo, and at last, after infinite trouble and sending 2 men out into the country for the custode, the Pinacoteca. The most beautiful thing was Donatello’s head of the young Baptist. Palmezzano shines among these local painters! The architecture of the Duomo was rejoicing. I sat and enjoyed it while Bernhard went to S. Francesco to hunt up a mythical Crowe & Cavalcaselle Crivelli. It was XV century, something like S. Lorenzo, but with a different roof and the columns varied. 
In the evening we came to Rimini, pretty tired. 
x Monday, October 17, 1892, Albergo Zongo, Pesaro
We saw Sigismondo Malatesta’s marvellous Temple in the morning, and the no less marvellous Gate of Augustus, which vies in every way with the most perfect building of the Renaissance. We saw the Pinacoteca, and after lunch the Roman Bridge and a picture in S. Giustiniano which seems to be, in part at least, really by Paolo. 
After dinner I began to [0311] write an article for The Woman’s Herald on “Pictures in Venice as documents about Venetian Women.” I enjoyed writing it. 
 Tuesday, October 18, 1892, Albergo Italia, URBINO! 
We started out at 8 and reached here at 12.30, a delightful drive. We lunched with an interesting party of Italian engineers who are building the railroad here. All of them had such intelligent faces, which showed the modelling of intellect when it is exercised. 
After lunch we went to the Palace of Federigo di Montefeltre. I feel as if no one could know anything really about the Renaissance unless they had seen it. But I cannot describe it. 
After dinner I continued writing my article, and Bernhard wrote to “Michael” to explain why women never wrote poetry and why they are beginning now. It is because poetry and wooing go together in the human creature just a song and wooing go together in birds. I believe this is the explanation, or part of it.
Sono mangiata da pucci!!
