Saturday, October 29, 1892, Albergo Campana, Fabriano 
“Did” Matelica. Quarrelled. 
Drove to Albacina and came by train to Fabriano. There was little to see here, but we found some Filippo da Veronas in the Pinacoteca. 
I began to write my article on “The March of Ancona” for the Woman’s Herald. 
Bernhard is reading Diderot’s short stories, and I am finishing Vol. IV of Creighton. 
Was unwell. 
x Sunday, October 30, 1892, Fabriano 
Drove through the mist to Arcevia and saw two Signorellis. It was about 20 miles and took all day. 
On the way back we “did” Sassoferrato. 
Tired and sleepy; slept 12 hours. 
x Monday, October 31, 1892, Albergo Can〈n〉oniera, Città di Castello 
Went to Gubbio and had three delightful hours there. 
Letters from Burke and Maude. 
Came here and wandered about the town enjoying the architecture, particularly of the Duomo and of the Palaces. 
I read The General’s Daughter by Potapen[c]ko
 and Morley’s second volume of Diderot. 
x Tuesday, November 1, 1892, Città di Castello
Saw Churches and the Pinacoteca. Discovered a Pier dei Franceschi. 
Rain came on. 
Bernhard finished The General’s Daughter, and walked out to S. Maria di Belvedere, after we had seen a charming little palazzino in the [0319] garden of the Vitelli palace near the station, now belonging to Principe Boncampagna. Fish-pond and all were quite like a Roman Villa.
 I wrote my article. A splendid inn, but not cheap. 
x Wednesday, November 2, 1892, Albergo Inghilterra, Arezzo
Left Città at 9.45 for Sansepolcro. 
We were so absorbed in our books (Burckhardt) and Morley’s Diderot that we passed the station without noticing, and had to walk back two km., not much and it was deliciously warm, like a spring day. 
We saw a Genio da Pistoia in San Agostino, and another and a Perugino in the Duomo. 
After lunch we saw the Pier dei Franceschi and a Rosso, and discovered a Pontormo to our delight. 
It rained in the afternoon and we reached here at 7 in a heavy pour. 
Bernhard is reading Creighton and I have begun Greene’s Thirty Years’ War. 
x Thursday, November 3, 1892, Arezzo 
Wandered about in Arezzo and saw the Churches and pictures. 
In the afternoon we drove (for six hours) to Monte Sansevino, where we saw in a narrow street a marvellous palace facing an open loggia, both by Antonio di Sangallo the elder, both wonderfully [0320] beautiful, and suggesting what a Roman street may have looked like. The Loggia 〈dei Mercanti〉 was the finest reconstruction of Roman architecture Bernhard had seen. We saw too some fine terra-cottas modelled by Andrea Sansovino. 
Very tired, went early to bed. 
Friday, November 4, 1892, Nazionale, Cortona
Took the 8.25 train and arrived here about 9. 
Found a B. della Gatta
 and enjoyed the pictures and architecture as much as is possible when followed by an army of dirty, sniffing, shuffling, curious, greedy (and needy) hangers on. 
In the afternoon we drove to Castiglione (Castel Fiorentino) to see B. della Gatta. I wrote this too soon, we did not go, but spent several hours instead enjoying the marvellous Signorellis in S. Niccolo. 
Then I sat on the town wall and saw the sunset while Bernhard explored two of the Renaissance Churches. 
We had a nice dinner at the Garibaldi. 
Saturday, November 5, 1892, Belle Arti, Perugia
We got up early and I managed to get to both the marvellous churches Bernhard had seen the day before, Santa Maria Nuova and Santa Maria [0321] del Calcinaoio. Even a short glimpse was a never-to-be-forgotten experience. 
We reached Perugia at 11 and after lunch I had my first glimpse of the Gallery. Then I came back and finished and sent of〈f〉 my Woman’s Herald article on The March of Ancona, while Bernhard stayed for further study. 
We went to the piazza and saw the sunset, and then went into the Duomo. 
Afterwards we hunted all over the town for a bookshop, and found only one and a very poor one. The Library moreover is open only in the morning!!
x Sunday, November 6, 1892, Perugia
Went to the Duomo and then to the Gallery. 
After lunch we walked to S. Maria del Monte Luce and came back round the town. 
Monday, November 7, 1892, Perugia
Bernhard wants me to write what I have just said, that I will always love him as much as I do now, and always want as much to be with him. 
We went to San Pietro in the morning, and the Gallery, San Severo, S. Bernardino, etc., in the afternoon. Enjoyed the Oratory of La Chiesa Nuova. 
