“The Italians took space for a language just as the musician takes sound. The Italians wanted harmonious symphonies. They strove so to work upon you that the moment you entered a church you should feel the existence of space as a positive, instead of as a merely negative fact, as a material instead of as a void, and as a [1.3] material capable of being shaped in the subtlest fashion. … Of course no architectural form can make you feel space so much as a dome resting on grand arches. These arches must be of such a depth that the moment you enter you are struck by the effect of space. If the arches were less deep, the dome would not look imposing enough, just because it might seem to〈o〉 heavy for its supports. … To make the arches on which the dome rests so long that you do not at once seize the complete effect of the dome and the arches, is absurd; for all the extra depth is then useless, considering always that the aim is this effect of perfect space. Having the arches of more than the necessary depth is not only useless, but a positive evil. It came about in this way. The moment you enter a building you can’t help seizing the effect of what seems the whole. Now when the arches supporting a dome are so deep that your first impression on entering does not include the dome, as soon as you discover that the dome is the real point, and not the arches, there is a fight in your head between the two impressions. It will end in the triumph of the second impression, but one’s feeling of harmony has meanwhile been very much disturbed, and the effect should have been perfectly harmonious. 
… Size beyond a certain point seems of as little importance in giving us a perfect effect of spaciousness as length is necessary to the beauty of a symphony … 
If you seize the meaning of these few pages, you will see at a glance why it was that the great problem of the Renaissance was the cruciform dome church. It had to be domed, because, as I have tried to show, the perfection of space is attainable only the meeting of four arms under a dome. The arms are the arches I have been speaking of all the time. It had to be cruciform, that is to say, the arms had to be of equal [2.3] length, so that from whatever arm you entered you at once got the complete effect of the interior. No arm could be longer; in other words, no arch deeper.
… I have copied the rest of this elsewhere so I will not go on. I hope it has in it the germ of a very fruitful idea of Bernhard’s upon Renaissance architecture.
