Tuesday, November 15, 1892, Grandori, Viterbo 
Left Terni at 8, reaching Orte at 9. 
Drove here, a very wonderful drive on the edge of the Cinimian forest, in a Claude-Poussin landscape.
On the way we stopped to see the * Villa Lante at Bagnaia (4 kilometres from Viterbo) The architecture was most interesting, being a cross between the Farnesina and the Palazzo del Tè, perhaps Raphael, or Giulio Romano young, or could it have been Vignola? Whoever it was, it was very fine. Hundreds of fountains and running streams splashed about. The basins and urns and terraces, etc., were all fine and strong, evidently the work of a great artist. 
Then we stopped to see the Madonna della Quercia (of 1538, Paul III) with its fine Bramante tower, and early Renaissance interior, and two most interesting cloisters.
In the afternoon looked at the Sebastiano del Piombo in the Pinacoteca and saw the Duomo, etc. 
Found a really good restaurant, the Schenardi. 
Quarrelled.
Wednesday, November 16, 1892, Grandori, Viterbo
Quarrelled. 
I was ill and stayed in bed all the morning. 
Bernhard went to see [0328] various things. We went together after lunch to see the Lorenzo da Viterbos, an astonishing and utterly unknown painter almost equal to Melozzo! 
Drove out at sunset to Santa Maria della Quercia and saw the cloisters again. 
Thursday, November 17, 1892, Aquila Bianca, Orvieto 
Drove here from Viterbo, lunching at Bolsena. 
There is a beautiful Church façade put up by Leo X while he was Cardinal, and other interesting things. We stopped at Montefiascone by the way and saw the Romanesque church, S. Flaviano, and the domes Church by Sanmichele. 
Found this a nice hotel. The day was as warm as summer, and the drive was enchanting. 
x Friday, November 18, 1892, Orvieto
Saw the Duomo and enjoyed the façade, although it is Gothic!, to the utmost. The interior is splendid, in spite of the inadequate choir and the horrible mistake of slitting in windows between the side chapels. The Signorellis disappointed me. I expected to be carried away, and instead, the faults of composition and the lack of decorative effect bothered me, in spite of the wonderful [0329] strength of it all, and the beauty of some of the episodes. 
Wrote my article on Assisi. 
Bernhard still reading Burckhardt on Architecture. 
Bernhard had a splendid walk. 
* Saturday, November 19, 1892, Orvieto
Cathedral in the morning. 
I was tired and rested and wrote all the afternoon, finishing my article, while Bernhard had another beautiful walk. 
The town rests like the Ark on the top of huge rocks. The Signorellis please me more. 
Sunday, November 20, 1892, Orvieto
I managed to walk around the town a little to see the views and some churches and palaces, etc. Then we went to the Duomo. 
In the afternoon I sat in the sun on the wall, while Bernhard walked to the Campo Santo, etc. 
I finished Gardiner’s Thirty Years’ War,
 and Bernhard finished Burckhardt. 
I enjoyed the Signorellis most of all today. 
 [FLORENCE]
Monday, November 21, 1892, Florence 
Had a last look at the Cathedral before coming away. Mass was being gorgeously sung, with a a congregation of three or four old women and men. What a contrast to a Protestant service, where everything depends on the audience and the newspapers’ report, so to speak. The Mass carries on the real tradition of sacrifice and worship. [0330] As it is offered to God, it taken no account of the congregation. From this side Catholicism is delightful; even I, who hate it inexpressibly because it is ruining, or nearly ruining my life, feel a tenderness and delight in it from this point of view. I have been so busy hating it, however, and dreading it for Ray, that, until this morning, I have not been able to enjoy anything about it.
We came in the 11 o’clock train here, reaching here 2.30. 
After much grappling I found nice rooms, 14 Lungarno Acciajuoli, for 75 francs a month, “tutto compreso”. 
Began Thomas Adolphus Hare, Lenten Journey.
Tuesday, November 22, 1892, 14 Lungarno Acciajuoli, Florence
Settled in our separate appartments, unpacking, etc., all the morning. 
Worked on our Quadri and I finished the Lenten Journey. 
* Wednesday, November 23, 1892, Florence 
Costa came in the morning and told us about his trip with Frizzoni to Spain. 
We went to the Uffizi and ‘glimped’ about. 
Worked a little more on our Quadri. I felt rather ill.
Thursday, November 24, 1892, Florence 
I read Ibsen’s Emperor and Galilean
 and had a [0331] German lesson. 
Unwell. 
Bernhard went to the Pitti and discovered a Lo Spagna, and went to Fiesole with Costa in the afternoon. They both came in to tea. 
Quadri in the evening. 
Friday, November 25, 1892, Florence 
Another lesson. 
Read De Brosses’ Lettres sur l’Italie.
 
Bernhard went to see churches and we worked on our Quadri. 
Saturday, November 26, 1892, Florence 
De Brosses and Quadri. 
Costa 〈and〉 his brother came to tea. 
A propos of England becoming Catholic B. said, “They will never put their whole literature on the Index — nor their history!” 
Sunday, November 27, 1892, Florence 
Worked on photographs and then went out to the Pitti, where I re-discovered the Lo Spagna. 
Met Jenkins at lunch. 
Bernhard spent part of the afternoon at Costa’s, looking over books, and came here to tea with Jenkins. 
Afterwards we continued our Quadri and began Geymüller’s book on St. Peter’s.
 
Tired. 
x Monday, November 28, 1892, Florence 
I was not feeling well, so I scarcely went out, except to lunch and dinner. 
Bernhard went to [0332] the Opera del Duomo. 
We worked on our Quadri and nearly brought it up to date. 
I began Geymüller’s book on Bramante and St. Peter’s.
Bernhard is reading Machiavelli’s Storia Fiorentina and also the Sacco di Roma, both of which he says are simply fascinating. 
Tuesday, November 29, 1892, 14 Lungarno Accaij〈u〉oli, Florence
B. read an article on “The Next Conclave” to me while I arranged photographs. 
We finished our work on the Quadri and read until lunch time.
In the afternoon Bernhard took a long walk with Mr. Jenkins, and they both came back to tea. Jenkins said a man could live very comfortably here in Florence on £50 a year. 
I finished Geymüller, and Bernhard lost himself in Burd’s edition of Il Principe.
* Wednesday, November 30, 1892, Florence
I read a play of Ibsen’s Lady Inger of Ostrat,
 but did not see anything in it. 
Went to the Duomo and the Sacristy. 
Costa came in the afternoon, and was very nice. 
