Tuesday, January 3, 1893, Florence 
Bernhard discovered he had earned £200 by getting Burke’s picture for him for 600 instead of 800. Burke is going to invest it for him. We feel rich, and for once kindness and gratitude have met. We sang Burke’s praises to each other all day long. 
I had a German lesson while Bernhard shopped for me. Then we walked in the Cascine. After tea, I made up an account while he wrote to Burke, and after dinner we looked at photographs and read. 
He has just finished and I am just beginning Ranke’s Histoire de France.
Wednesday, January 4, 1893, Florence
I began Perry’s Greek Literature.
 It is one of the most fascinating books I ever read. 
Studied German and wrote to Lady Eastlake, while Bernhard went to the Panciatichi Gallery.
After lunch we walked through the Uffici and Pitti and over Bellosguardo, meeting Mr. Way who was walking there alone looking sad. 
After tea Bernhard called on William James, whom he found as charming as ever, but full of vain talk [0337] about A - A - A - A - Art!! Yet he is ready to massacre anybody who speaks of Doubt. Bernhard had said the spread of common sense over the various departments of human intelligence is like the spread of civilization over the world. Most people in the region of Art are still fetish-worshipping savages. How well Perry brings that out in regard to the once prevalent view of Literature! 
In the evening we read Bridges’
 poetry, but did not find much life in it.
* Thursday, January 5, 1893, Florence 
Read Perry, studied German. 
I went to the Pitti to speak to Prof. James, and then to the Panciatichi collection with Bernhard. We saw the most lovely of all Crivelli’s, a smallish Pietà, of perfect, compact composition. There were fine Japanese things too, and a couple of delicious small Tura’s. Then we went to the Museo Etrusco. 
After lunch Bernhard went to call on “Vernon Lee” and I to the James’. He enjoyed himself more than I, for Vernon was wonderfully intelligent and talked in a most comprehending way about the scientific study of Art. As for my call, it was absolutely [0338] sickening, all the old, uneducated rot about Art being a Gift, and having nothing to do with life, and art criticism being impossible. Where, to divert the conversation into channels where I thought we might be sympathetic, we asked him which of the Florentine pictures he had most enjoyed, it turned out that he had scarcely been to the Galleries at all! What fatal necessity compels such people to talk of Art? 
A Mr. Loring was there who was far worse than Prof. James, but as he seemed to be originally a being without intelligence, he was less blameworthy. 
Friday, January 6, 1893, Florence
I read a good deal of Perry and of Ranke and had a German lesson. Bernhard read Vol. II of Ranke’s Histoire de la France
 and “Balaustion’s Adventure” (Browning).
 He delighted to find Browning using such words as “banalities” and “mollify”. 
We both wrote to Hapgood in answer to a letter from him. As it was a holiday, all the [0339] Galleries were closed.
Cesare, our waiter at the Toscana, says none of the country people who come in to market on Fridays give a single thought to abstaining from meat on that day. So much for the “religious Italian peasantry” we hear talk of in England!
My heart was filled all day long with hatred and bitterness on account of James and his twaddle about Art. 
Saturday, January 7, 1893, Florence
Wrote to mother, read and talked in the morning and went to the Casa Buonarotti. 
After lunch to Alinari’s to choose photos for the Mikes, and then a walk to Bellosguardo. 
Mr. and Mrs. James called when we got back. Mrs. James is bovine. 
Bernhard had a call from Costa, and himself called on the Miss Forbes in the evening, while I studied German.
* Sunday, January 8, 1893, Florence
Began to write an article on “Building Master Solness,” Ibsen’s last play. 
Walked on Fiesole hills.
