Monday, January 9, 1893, Florence
Wrote, went to Uffizi, studied, walked over Bellosguardo, read. 
Dined with Loeser and met a painter named Prudnik. 
Tuesday, January 10, 1893, Florence
German lesson.
Wednesday, January 11, 1893, Florence
German lesson.
Despair. It is so hard to do anything which points towards giving up Ray, yet my position becomes worse each day. I live on in semi-concealment. 
* Thursday, January 12, 1893, Florence
At last Bernhard gave me the choice between retaining Ray at all costs or sticking honourably to him. It is true, it would be absurd to pay for a more than doubtful share in Ray, our whole happiness. Yet the thought of really giving her up, cut my brain literally like a knife. I never suffered such sharp pain. Of course I decided for Bernhard, and now I mean to do all I can to improve our position. 
Friday, January 13, 1893, Florence
I wrote to mother to let everyone know about [0341] my separation from B.F.C.C. so that it may come from my side, and not be concealed as if we were ashamed of it. 
Read Ranke and Perry and Huysmans’ Sac au Dos.
Lunched with Loeser and walked over Bellosguardo. 
x Saturday, January 14, 1893, Florence
Went over sculpture, etc., photographs in the morning. 
Walked in the Cascine in the afternoon. 
Read poetry of Charles d’Orleans, Perry, Ranke. 
Bernhard has just finished Morley’s Diderot,
 and is reading Voltaire
 and Tristram Shandy.
 
Mrs. James, Loeser told us, had kept his dinner party waiting half an hour because the dressmaker had not sent home her “body” in time. The “body” turned out to be a red cashmere blouse. She told me that she longed to get back to Cambridge to set up a small chicken farm. 
Walking in the Cascine we composed this [0342] rondeau:
Mrs. James
How she flames
In a “body”
Red and shoddy
She hates Florence
In abhorrence
For her chickens 
Her heart sickens
In a “body”
Red and shoddy
How she flames
Mrs. James!
x Sunday, January 15, 1893, Florence
We rather wasted the morning doing odds and ends, at least I did. Bernhard read Voltaire. 
We walked to the Indian after lunch. 
I finished Vol. I of Ranke’s History of France
 and read Merimée’s Chronique de Charles IX,
 and studied German. 
Bernhard went to the Forbes in the evening, but was bored. 
Monday, January 16, 1893, Florence
Read. Went to Uffizi. 
Walked in Cascine.
