* Wednesday, January 25, 1893, Florence
Worked on our Lotto all day long.
Thursday, January 26, 1893, Florence
Prof. James called on Bernhard and we all went to the Uffizi together. James is the greatest bore to show pictures to. He seems to think they are to be taken in by any sense except the sense of sight, “particularly by the ears”, as Bernhard says, and he particularly and persistently admires all the very worst daubs. For instance, in the room of the Giorgiones he liked most that horrid Salviati affair (called Paolo) of a woman washing her feet! 
After lunch Bernhard took a walk with Loeser, who came back to tea and took us to dine with him. 
I felt rather ill, with a cold coming on.
Friday, January 27, 1893, Florence
Mr. and Mrs. James came to go to the Gallery. James was as scatter-brained and inappropriate as ever, but Mrs. [0348] James really looked at things, and was very nice. Such an amusing discussion arose between them before the Botticelli Venus. One of us said how dreadful Vernon Lee’s criticism of it was, how could she find it indecent? 
“Well,” said James, “a Mother of a Family would have to think it indecent, not that it is, but it is perfectly right and proper that she should think so.” 
“If you mean me, my dear,” said Mrs. James, “I do not find it indecent, but I do find Vernon Lee so.” 
To hear their “my dears” and “my darlings” is, as Bernhard says, like finding shells on the tops of mountains!
Then we lunched with Loeser, and I had a German lesson while Bernhard called on senator Comparetti, a friend of Mrs. Bywater. 
In the afternoon and evening we worked on our Lotto. 
x Saturday, January 28, 1893, Florence
Worked on Lotto and went to Uffizi. 
In the afternoon walked by the Arno [0349] from the Bagni di Ripoli, a lovely walk.
Sunday, January 29, 1893, Florence
Lotto in the morning, and Bargello. 
I had an attack of pleurisy, so I rested while Bernhard walked over Bello Sguardo.
After tea we finished correcting our Lotto. 
Had dinner sent in, and read Pater’s “School of Giorgione”
 and talked about it in the evening. As Bernhard says, he writes as if he had a cold in his head — ‘molto costipato’ — He is never clear, but is just on the point of clearing himself out. 
Read Ben Jonson.
Monday, January 30, 1893, Florence
Began to type-write the Lotto. 
Bernhard went to the Bargello. 
After lunch we went to the Academy and S. Annunziata and the Duomo. 
Worked in the evening. 
Read Drummond of Hawthornden.
 
[No entries from January 30 to February 6]
