Sunday, February 12, 1893, Florence
Worked on Lotto, went to Bargello. 
Walked in Cascine with Loeser in the afternoon and got caught in the rain. 
I was locked out all day, but went to Bernhard’s and while he read Bosanquet
 I read a dozen 18th Century essays. 
Then I wrote to Lady Eastlake and he wrote to Went.
 
The Women’s Herald with the Ibsen article came. 
Monday, February 13, 1893, Florence
Lotto, went to Uffizi and San Martino. Walked. 
Read Symonds and Eastlake and Ranke. 
Quarrelled out of mere silliness. 
* Tuesday, February 14, 1893, My 29th birthday, Florence
Bernhard brought me a bunch of daffodils as a token of reconciliation. 
Mr. Jenkins, whom we met at lunch, sent me an endless quantity of lovely violets. 
Ray sent me Valentines she had painted herself, and Alys sent me a book called French Art by one Brownell,
 which Bernhard and I both read the same day, with mixed emotions, mostly disgust. 
Wednesday, February 15, 1893, Florence
Loeser called to offer posthumous congratulations, [0357] as it were, on my birthday, and invite us to dinner. 
We finished and sent off a review of Brownell’s book, which, at the moment, in the first glow of composition, I think was a pretty good review. I hope Alys can get it in somewhere. 
We dined with Loeser. Looked over his fine collection of Michelangelo drawings.
 
He says that Mrs. James wept the other day when her husband brought home some of his pictures in which he had been spending the money they need for other things, and that James, in irritation, ran his knife through them then and there. 
The Ways went to the Corsini Ball, Mrs. Way getting a new dress for 400 francs. They met pension acquaintances and no one else there, and were ill the next day, Mrs. Way in fact being again seriously ill in bed. And they have no money to pay for the dress. Yet they are upborne by the feeling that she was “the best dressed woman there.” Loeser thinks, however, that Mrs. Way would have been something splendid if she had married a man of more character. 
