* Thursday, February 16, 1893, Florence
We worked on our Lotto.
After lunch we walked around by Carreggi [sic] to San Domenico across the fields. It was very hot. 
Mr. Jenkins came to tea. He told us of his experience as his father’s election agent in Cornwall, which gave him such a horror of politics that he would not say a word about Gladstone’s Home Rule Bill. Talk of the electorate being pure!! On the whole I think it was purer to b〈u〉y votes by playing on people’s avarice than upon their snobbishness.
Friday, February 17, 1893, Florence
Bernhard called on Senator Comparetti whom he found editing the earliest Code, a Cretan tablet dating from about 600 B.C. 
After lunch we walked over the Bellosguardo hills and then came back and grappled with our Introduction to Lotto. 
Bernhard was rather cast down at discovering what a treacherous friend Loeser is. It came out in this way. The picture-dealer [0359] here, from whom Bernhard bought the Pier di Cosimo for Burke, has a picture by Filippo Lippi. Hearing that Crespi of Milan was here, Bernhard, out of friendliness to Gagliardi and because he preferred Crespi to have the picture, instead of having it go out of Italy, went to him on Signor Frizzoni’s recommendation and spoke to him about the picture. Crespi was very rude to him, and Bernhard could not imagine the reason. However, it came out today when Bernhard happened to stop in at Gagliardi’s. Gagliardi told him that Crespi had been there with Loeser (who sets up to say the picture is not genuine), and afterwards by himself. When he came alone he told Gagliardi that Loeser had warned him to have nothing to do with Berenson, who was of “una cattiva disposizione”, knew nothing of pictures, and was generally not to be trusted. 
How strange it seems that Loeser could say this when he knows it is not true, and when common decency ought to make him feel gratitude to Bernhard without whom he would have known nothing of Italian pictures (not that he knows much now!), nor had any of his present acquaintances, such as Costa or Frizzoni—or even Crespi himself! 
