Saturday, February 18, 1893, Florence
A letter from mother this morning unwell says that Marion Lawrence
 has gone crazy in Paris and that Logan brought her off to London. She proposed to a young man and declares she is engaged to him, and talks constantly of him, and of herself, saying that she is a genius, a Princess, that she is going to be a very brilliant woman, etc., etc. Mother says it is most pitiful. 
Ray sent me a birthday letter. 
Bernhard went to lunch at “Vernon Lee’s” to meet Miss Sellers.
 He enjoyed himself very much, and was especially interested to find Miss Sellars [sic] employing exactly the same scientific methods in her study of Greek sculpture that we use in our work. 
We finished the Lotto Introduction. 
* Sunday, February 19, 1893, Florence
Wrote out notes on the March of Ancona for Mrs. Bywater.
 
After lunch Bernhard met Vernon Lee & Co. at the Bargello. Vernon Lee was ready to kill him for his anti-genius notions of art. Miss Sellars [sic] said that it struck her that, as compared with the Greeks, Renaissance sculptors did not know what to do with the legs. He said they were so [0361] shy of mentioning the different parts of the body by name that discussion was difficult. 
We walked in the Boboli Gardens together, and then continued the Lotto catalogue, the typo-paper having come. 
I finished Tristram Shandy and Bernhard entered upon Vol. II of Rabelais. 
Monday, February 20, 1893, Florence
Finished Mrs. Bywater’s notes, and went to Santa Trinità and the Uffizi in the morning. We both discovered a drawing by Amico Aspertini.
After lunch we continued the Lotto and then took a walk in the Cascine. 
I called on Miss Britten while Bernhard wrote to Fields. 
Then we did some more Lotto.
In the evening Bernhard called on the Forbes and I studied German. 
He made me angry — though it would puzzle me to explain why! — by maintaining that humanity had to push up just so many “geniuses” in each direction and that if one died another would come inevitably to take exactly his place. Charles V, for example, was bound to have a Titian, Julius II a Michelangelo. 
