Sunday, February 26, 1893, Florence
I felt ill and feared another rheumatic attack. We worked on Lotto in the morning and the Academy. 
I was ill all the afternoon. Bernhard walked. 
In the evening we read Ibsen’s Vikings,
 which Mr. Murray pronounced Ibsen’s finest play. 
Monday, February 27, 1893, Florence
Went to the Uffizi, wrote Hawthorne and Lotto, walked. 
Bernhard called on the Forbes and arranged for a class. 
Mother writes that Marion has two aunts who have been 30 years and an uncle 10 years in an asylum. What a terrible outlook for her! 
Costa called. 
x Tuesday, February 28, 1893, Florence
Spent an hour and a half downstairs among the drawings with Costa. I discovered a Benedetto Diana!!
 
Met Lord Carlisle and Roberts and the children and walked about with them. Lord Carlisle was horrified with the Zorn,
 but the children listened with open ears to every word I said. 
After my [0366
] German lesson we wrote a while and then walked. 
I began Michelet’s Richelieu.
 It is full of anecdotage, as compared to Ranke. 
Mrs. James and Loeser called. 
> Wednesday, March 1, 1893, Florence
Wrote my Hawthorne. 
Went to Santo Spirito and the Brancacci Chapel. 
Took the tram to Settignano and walked over the hills, a most delicious walk! 
Read in the evening. 
x Thursday, March 2, 1893, Florence
Took Lady Mary and Mr. Murray to the Uffizi. They were nice. They said the others were still discussing the Zorn!
Bernhard went to Santa Croce and the Bargello. 
Walked over the hills from the Bagno di Ripoli. 
Wrote. 
Friday, March 3, 1893, Florence
Hawthorne still! 
Walked over behind Bellosguardo and enjoyed it. 
Read, wrote. 
x Saturday, March 4, 1893, Florence
Went to S. Maria Novella. There Bernhard studied the [0367] Orcagnas and discovered that Orcagna was a pupil of Lorenzetti. I guided Mr. Roberts and Lief [sic] Jones about. 
At lunch we talked about writing an article to explain why the study of the Renaissance leads to culture; it takes you both backwards and forwards from itself. Founded on Latin and Greek civilization, it is nevertheless the beginning of our era.
Bernhard felt low all day because he has not yet appeared in print, under his own name!
While I continued <writing> my Hawthorne, he finished a splendid article of Wickhoff’s
 upon Guido da Siena, a really fine piece of scholarship. 
We walked by San Miniato, and Bernhard darkened the air with complaints. 
He called on Mr. Sinclair, and after tea we corrected my Hawthorne, which I began to type-write in the evening. 
Sunday, March 5, 1893, Florence
Wrote stories for Karin’s birthday book in the morning. 
Went to the Medici Tombs. It is quite true, as Miss Sellars [sic] [0368] said that, compared to the Greeks, Renaissance sculptors do not know what to do with the legs. Most of the Michelangelo legs there were awful, and so all the Donatello’s, usually. 
Then we went to San Marco and were charmed with Fra Angelico. 
After lunch we took the tram to Settignano and walked to Fiesole by Poggio — a most invigorating, enchanting walk.
In the evening we read some more of the English Poets, and began Milton. 
Bernhard is grappling with Frey’s Malabecchiani.
 
Monday, March 6, 1893, Florence 
We finished our Lotto notes! 
Bernhard took Mrs. Scott and her two daughters to the Uffizi, for 25 francs. He said they were bored, he certainly was. 
I called on Mrs. James while he walked in the Cascine. She made my hair stand on end by all she told me of Irish servants in America. From that point of view alone, she said that Bryce,
 when he was in [0369] America, prophesied a war between the Protestants and the Catholics, the two grades of society whose interest are not only diverse but directly opposed. If I had time, I should write an article on all she told me, but alas! time is so short, and I am too busy. 
In the evening I went on with my translation of Bode’s handbook of Italian sculpture,
 and Bernhard worked himself into a rage of Frey. 
“Michael” writes about the Building Master Solness, which they are now playing with great success in England:
“O to be in England,
Now that Ibsen’s there!
And whoever wakes in England
Feels some morning unaware
That a Breath is stirring through mere belief,
For the old world’s notions have come to grief
And the Modern pierces, one knows not how,
Through England now!” 
Tuesday, March 7, 1893, Florence 
Went to the Pitti, but it was cold and the staring colours of the Florentines hurt my eyes. 
While I had my German lesson, [0370] Bernhard began an article on Karl Frey’s book. 
We walked from the Bagno di Ripoli over the hills, a lovely walk, finding violets by the path. 
After tea, we wrote the tail to our Lotto, about his followers, etc., and after dinner I went on printing my Hawthorne, while Bernhard read Symonds on Italian Literature. 
x Wednesday, March 8, 1893, Florence 
Finished and sent off the Hawthorne. 
Went to the Uffizi and studied particularly the engravings in the corridor. 
After lunch we finished the Lotto “Following”. 
Then Bernhard took a walk in the Cascine, while I looked at a little appartment. [sic] A poor old New Zealand school mistress art critic was living in them, her third winter, studying art from Ruskin and Hare and Rio and Hermann Grimm! Let us hope they will seem more appropriate in New Zealand than they do on the spot! 
Then I called on Prof. James and found [0371] him furiously raging over Vernon Lee’s Vanitas
 which contains a complete microscopic dissection of his brother the novelist, “the most incomprehensible, indelicate, indecent thing conceivable.” All this sounded odd from the brother of the man whose “Miss Birdseye” was such a patent caricature of his father’s old friend, Miss Peabody.
In the evening we read 〈Ibsen’s〉 Rosmershold 
 and I read Hedda Gabler.
Thursday, March 9, 1893, Florence 
Went to the Uffizi and studied Florentine drawings. 
Worked on the Lotto. 
Finished Rosmersholm and compared it with Solness. 
Bernhard called on the Scotts and I went to San Miniato. 
After tea we grappled with the Lotto, and quarrelled, as usual when we write together! 
And in the evening read Vanitas, 
 which didn’t strike us as very bad. I also read the other two stories, one at night, and the other in morning. 
