Friday, March 10, 1893, Florence 
Began by quarrelling over the Lotto! 
Went to Santa Maria Novella, still quarrelling. 
After lunch Bernhard wrote his Carl Frey article, while I had a German lesson. 
We worked over the article, and then walked to Santa Margarita, gathering pink anemones by the way. 
Worked in evening. 
* Saturday, March 11, 1893, Florence 
We spent nearly the whole day finishing the Carl Frey article, which was finally posted to the New York Nation at 8.30. 
We had a walk over the fields behind Bellosguardo, and picked handfuls of daffodils, and anemones of many strange colours. 
Talked about going to Lucca, but decided that Florence is altogether too enchanting! 
We were pretty quarrelsome over our work, I am sorry to say!
Sunday, March 12, 1893, Florence 
I wrote my children’s story. 
When Bernhard came, we answered Frizzoni’s letter and [0373] then went to the Bargello. 
After lunch I read Pillars of Society
 aloud, and then we walked on the hills by the Bagno di Ripoli, but unfortunately quarrelled over flower-picking. 
In the evening Bernhard read Symonds on Renaissance Literature and I studied my German and read Michelet on Richelieu.
Monday, March 13, 1893, Florence 
Worked on Lotto. 
Walked in Cascine and “jumped”, worked on Lotto. 
I studied German in the evening and Bernhard read Symonds’ Literature. 
Tuesday, March 14, 1893, Florence 
The Galleries being closed, we spent the whole day over Lotto, except for a walk on Bellosguardo. 
Bernhard wrote to Hapgood while I had my German lesson. 
German and Symonds in the evening. 
Recovered from my grumpiness. 
* Wednesday, March 15, 1893, Florence 
We got on well with the Lotto. 
Unfortunately, [0374] we quarrelled at lunch-time, over nothing. I simply have an abominable temper, but now I mean to stop it. It has grown up merely within the last two years. 
The rest of the day we still worked upon Lotto, with some success, I think. 
Thursday, March 16, 1893, Florence 
Lotto most of the day. 
Read An Enemy of the People (Ibsen). 
Friday, March 17, 1893, Florence 
Lotto. 
I took a walk in the afternoon with Prof. James, who said art had no connection with life, and that, as it was almost impossible to arrive at exact historical truth, it was useless to study history.
Christina Bremner
 arrived at 6.30. 
Bernhard called on the Forbes. 
Saturday, March 18, 1893, Florence (unwell)
We took Christina to Santa Croce. 
In the [0375] afternoon I took her for a walk from the Bagni di Ripoli.
Sunday, March 19, 1893, Florence 
Went to the Academy and San Marco. Bernhard and Christina went to the Pazzi frescoes while I came home. 
In the afternoon they walked over Bellosguardo and I read The Vicar of Wakefield.
 
Talked all evening. 
Monday, March 20, 1893, Florence
Santa Maria Novella. 
Worked over Lotto. Christina explored for herself. We read her our “Lotto”, and she confessed to having thought of Titian as a “sort of Dutchman.” Lionardo only suggested “a long kind of a Madonna and angel”; of Tintoretto and Botticelli she had never heard. 
Bernhard uses it to prove that art, particularly art criticism, is so remote from life that it is not worth bothering about. He is discouraged. 
