Tuesday, March 21, 1893, Florence 
Took Christina to the Uffizi. The Florentines left her cold. 
We took a long walk in the afternoon in the Fiesole hills. 
Read The Wild Duck in the evening, which depressed Bernhard still more, as he compared himself and his Great Work in futuro to Hialmar and his “Invention”. 
* Wednesday, March 22, 1893, Florence
Took Christina to the Pitti, and here, before the Venetians, especially Tintoretto, she waked up. Her criticism was delightful. “How it sticks out”, which put into the Art Critics’ pompoferous language means “How solidly it is modelled, how well the values are given, what ‘atmosphere’.” The great Art Critic of the future will be the one who dares to say “stick out” (and who has money to publish his own books!!) [0377] 
In the afternoon I went with Mrs. James to Bardini’s, while the others took a walk in the Cascine. 
We worked for a couple of hours on Lotto and after dinner read Pater on Botticelli. 
Thursday, March 23, 1893, Florence
Took Christina to Santo Spirito, Carmine, and San Lorenzo, while Bernhard went to the Carmine and Pitti. 
After lunch worked on Lotto for 2 hours, then walked with Christina in the Boboli and to San Miniato. 
After dinner we read Browning’s various Italian poems. 
Friday, March 24, 1893, Florence
Went to the Palazzo Vecchio and the Uffizi. 
After lunch and my German lesson we walked from Fiesole round by Poggio to Settignano, a most fascinating walk. 
I had very disquieting news from mother, but the air and sunshine made me happy in spite of the pain at my heart. 
Saturday, March 25, 1893, Florence
San Lorenzo and the Opera del Duomo in the morning. 
Worked on Lotto till tea and after tea walked over the San Miniato hill, talking [0378] about Christina’s newspaper experiences, and rather despairingly about Bernhard’s books. 
After dinner Bernhard called on the Forbes and Christina and I chatted about her trip, etc.
Sunday, March 26, 1893, Florence
Went to the Bargello, which Christina enjoyed. 
Wrote home. 
Bernhard called on Mr. Benson and talked about Signorelli, and wrote to his sister. 
After tea we walked on Bellosguardo and after dinner read Browning.
* Monday, March 27, 1893, Florence
Duomo and Annunziata and Innocenti in the morning. Saw a Luca della Robbia in the Innocenti we had never studied before, a great beauty! 
Worked on Lotto. 
Walked to San Miniato, and worked on Lotto again. 
Read aloud Ghosts (Ibsen) in the evening, while Bernhard looked at photographs. 
Christina calls him “The Law” or else “The Eternal Light”. He has been deliciously entertaining ever since she has been here. A third person often wakes up conversation. Two people alone tend to become quiet. 
