Friday, April 7, 1893, Florence 
Christina’s packing and guide-books. Saw her off to Bologna. The ticket office man, as usual, tried to cheat us in the change.
I wrote to the Florentine Paper, Il Fieramosca. 
Frizzoni is staying in Florence and Bernhard went to meet him and Loeser at Santa Croce. 
I called on Mme Zucchelli and then on Miss Lohse. 
In the evening Bernhard went to call on the Youngs. 
Saturday, April 8, 1893, Florence
I “magazined” the Lotto, both morning and afternoon, paying a visit to the Corsini Gallery between whiles.
Bernhard met Loeser and Frizzoni, and called on Mr. Benn, whom he found full of ideas. 
In the evening Costa and his friend Fabbri came, and were very pleasant. They are both extraordinarily handsome 
x Sunday, April 9, 1893, Florence
Still Lotto. 
We went to the Pitti, and late in the afternoon took a walk in the [0383] Cascine. 
Bernhard met Frizzoni and Loeser and went about with them a little. Costa and Fabbri came in the evening. A nice talk.
Monday, April 10, 1893, Florence
I continued printing the Lotto, while Bernhard went on making out his lists of Venetian paintings. Hard work!
Bernhard called on Forbes.
Tuesday, April 11, 1893, Florence
I met Miss Lohse in the Uffizi, while Bernhard worked. She dosed me well with Hermann Grimm, and I came away feeling very sick. Connoisseurship is not the end but oh! it is the ‘beginning of wisdom”, and Hermann Grimm and his disciples have it not. 
In the afternoon Bernhard walked from Fiesole to Settignano with Mr. Benn who was more brimming over with ideas than ever. He said Ruskin’s “Law” is the Oxford revival of Mediaeval Catholicism. He was the first Englishman to rediscover the Renaissance, but he rediscovered it by hating it, and thus proved very clearly that he knew what it was, how [0384] totally opposed to mediaeval Christianity. How well this explains Ruskin!! He also said Browning was not one of the great poets, for he wrote only of Love, and of no other part of the “struggle for life”. 
While Bernhard was enjoying this delightful talk, I looked for lodgings for “Michael Field” and called on Mrs. James, who was interesting. She said that some doctors in America refused to undertake confinements unless they were allowed to give ether freely. How uncivilized England seems, where ether is the exception. I remember when Ray was born, I had to have a special ether administrator, who charged an extra £10.
Wednesday, April 12, 1893, Florence 
I began my packing, while Bernhard took Mrs. Bywater to the Academy. He said the pictures, particularly the Primavera, never seemed to him so marvellous before. 
After my German <lesson>, we worked and sketched out his course of lectures, and then took a walk over [0385] Bellosguardo. The sun has been shining for nearly a month, and the crops are perishing for want of rain. There is something terrible in this brilliant, cloudless sky. 
After dinner Bernhard called on the Forbes to meet Mr. and Mrs. Bywater.
Thursday, April 13, 1893, Florence
Worked upon the Catalogue of Pictures. 
Bernhard took Mrs. Bywater to the Pitti. 
He called on Miss Burke
 while I went up to the Villa Montauto
 and sat on the wall enjoying the sunset until he joined me. 
Costa and Fabbri came and were delightful. 
x Friday, April 14, 1893, Florence
Catalogue still. 
Bernhard took Mrs. Bywater to the Uffizi (I think). 
He called on Fabbri and I upon Miss Lohse, who told me her story, which interested me so that I am trying to write a tale of it. 
Saturday, April 15, 1893, Florence
Still the Catalogue. 
Bernhard took Mrs. Bywater to Santa Maria Novella. At twelve she said, “O, I must hurry back and find him (her husband). You can’t think how it [0386] takes all my time and energy to keep him in a good humour. Men are all like that, I suppose”, a gentle sigh. 
We walked in the Cascine. 
I worked in the evening, while Bernhard called on the Forbes. 
Corso dei Fiori.
Sunday, April 16, 1893, Florence 
Catalogue. 
Bernhard took Mrs. Bywater to the Uffizi, but he surprised me first by a very early visit to announce that his article on Carl Frey had been accepted by the Editor of the Nation and pronounced “very acceptable”.
Also a certain Mr. Theodore Davis
 has written to him asking him to come at once to Rome and advise him about buying certain pictures, for a payment, of course. It may be an opening.
We worked and worked and took a little walk in the Cascine.
Bernhard dined with the Bywaters and Senator Comparetti. 
I dined alone at Doney’s. Their five franc dinner is a fraud! 
I read La Maison Tellier.
 
Bernhard is reading Symonds’ Vol. on The Fine Arts and I Vol. II of his Italian Literature. 
Costa came in the evening, stayed till midnight. He starts for Paris tomorrow. 
