Monday, April 24, 1893, Florence 
I had a rather threatening letter from B.F.C.C. and Bernhard a discouraged one from his sister, about his father’s failing health. As this means great distress for them, we determined to send them £100, part of the money which Burke gave Bernhard on the Pier di Cosimo picture, Bernhard having saved him £200 on it. We had laid this by, meaning to use it to print one of our books this summer, but it seemed impossible to be happy while they were in want. 
I took Michael Field to the Medici Tomb, the Baptistery, the Opera del Duomo and the Bargello, all of which we enjoyed exceedingly. 
I forgot, by the way, to note a little incident which happened when Christina and I were in the Bargello, looking at the Donatello “Amor”, the little boy with wings and a tail. A peasant woman with a shawl over her head was gazing at it curiously, and at last turned to me and asked “È un santo?” “Si, si,” I answered, “Sant’Amore,” and she walked away quite satisfied!
 In the afternoon I joined the Mikes in the Uffizi, while Bernhard went to see Dr Baldwin, who said there was nothing the matter with him. 
At tea [0391] time, we all had a nice, cosy talk. The Mikes are so very, very nice. I love anybody who appreciates “The Doctrine”, as they call Bernhard, and love them for their own sakes as well.
[on the way to Rome] 
* Tuesday, April 25, 1893, Hotel Inghilterra, Arezzo
A terrible day of packing, entwined by a call from Mrs. Way and one from Mr. Jenkins. 
Got off at last in the 6.40 train. 
Wednesday, April 26, 1893, Garibaldi, Cortona
Saw Arezzo and discovered 3 Signorelli predelle in the Sacristy of the Duomo. The Pier dei Franceschi’s looked simply overwhelming in the bright light. 
Came to Cortona and went everywhere. On the Castello a goat-herd woman told us that the bodies of the Saints had been uncovered, to induce them to bring rain to the parched land. But the appeal was unsuccessful.
Thursday, April 27, 1893, Canoniera, Città di Castello 
Drove to Fojano and saw the Signorelli and the Andrea della Robbia’s there, then [0392] to Castiglione Fiorentino, then to Arezzo, and then steam tram here. 
I read Renée Mauperin,
 and did not care for it much. 
* Friday, April 28, 1893, Città di Castello
Saw the pictures. Walked to the Belvedere. 
Saw Mancini’s pictures, but could not find or hear of his Signorelli Nativity.
Saturday, April 29, 1893, Belle Arti, Perugia
Train to Umbertide. 
Saw the Signorelli. 
A “camora” was made to prevent our getting anything but a miserable two wheeled, rope-bottomed trap to take us to Perugia, but Bernhard saw through it, and in the end we got a nice phaeton, and came here in 3 hours, paying 15 francs. 
The Mikes were already here, and we dined together at the “Progresso”. 
Sunday, April 30, 1893, Perugia
Duomo. Belle Arti with Mikes. 
Perugian school failed to rouse us. 
A lovely walk after lunch. Wrote in evening. 
