Thursday, May 4, 1893, Rome 
Ara Coeli, S. Marco, S. Maria del Popolo, the Sixtine Chapel in the morning, Barberini Collection and the Pincian in the afternoon. In the Barberini is a lovely ‘Galatea’ by Pontormo, which no one ever looks at! 
Bad news from home, ah me! 
Friday, May 5, 1893, Rome
Santa Maria Maggiore, S. John Lateran, and the Lateran Gallery in the morning. 
The “Mikes” drove along the Appian Way. 
Mr. Bliss called. 
Bernhard wrote his “Architecture”. 
Saturday, May 6, 1893, Rome
St. Peter’s and the Vatican Sculptures, where Michael Field mourned over his lost illusions. 
The Borghese in the afternoon (2.50 there and walk home).
We are always deadly tired in the evening. Sleep shuts down on us all like the iron blinds which roll slowly down on fashionable shop windows at “closing up” time.
Sunday, May 7, 1893, Rome
S. Maria sopra Minerva, the Pantheon, and the Capitoline in the morning. 
We met Miss Sellars [sic] there, who showed us Roman and Greek things. She studies archeology exactly as we [0395] study Renaissance art. How interesting it is to trace, as one can do here, Renaissance architecture and decoration straight back to Roman models. 
In the afternoon we went out to the Baths of Caracalla and talked. 
In the evening we read Robert Bridges,
 and “Michael” was the only one left to say a word in his defence, and that a feeble one. “Field” she calls “The Walls of Jericho”, for she crumbles to ruins when she tries “new” doctrine. That is so brave and sincere of her, she does not stand up for her old opinions. She groaned and said it made her fear that their volume which is just being issued, A Book of Verses underneath the Bough, will receive but a Lenten welcome. But why should one tolerate Elizabethan copies nowadays anymore than we should tolerate say ante plein air painting in France? Then Bridges has nothing to say.
I have had such disquieting news from London, my heart sinks within me. B.F.C.C. keeps on Emma, when she is proud to be a bad nurse for the children, and now he threatens to sue for a divorce. I feel as if it would kill me to leave Ray entirely to such a brute, poor innocent creature! Yet I cannot live without Bernhard. B.F.C.C. is very cruel and brutal. I could not have thought he would make the children suffer, at any rate. 
