Friday, May 19, 1893, San Benedetto del Tronto 
Left Rome at 7 o’clock. The journey across the mountains, from crater to crater, was wonderful. We found this quiet little place by the sea and settled here for the night instead of going on to Ascoli. 
Saturday, May 20, 1893, Albergo Vittoria, Fermo 
Saw Ascoli and the Crivelli in the Duomo there. 
Came here, a fascinating evening drive from the station. Wonderful white wine.
Sunday, May 21, 1893, Fermo
Drove, 7.30-11, to Massa Fermana and found a Crivelli. A wonderful drive. 
Fermo a tiny quiet place without even a Caffé or a Trattoria! But some people took us in and gave us eggs and curds and brown bread, and we got on very well. 
Monday, May 22, 1893, Albergo Pellegrino, Loreto
Saw Fermo and made the acquaintance of the Bibliotecario “Marchese Filippo Cav. Raffaelli”. 
Discovered a Rondinelli in a Church, and 2 Bartolomeo Vivarinis and a Savoldo in the Palazzo Bernetti. 
Then we drove to Torre di Palma, but found the so-called Crivelli a fraud, that is to say, a Vittorio Crivelli.
 
Then we came [0401] here and wandered about the town and saw a picturesque Church service.
At dinner one of those awful hidden, unconscious tragedies was half uncovered. Field so clever, so sensitive, so young, tied to a perfect goose like Michael, who can’t get a single idea through her head, and resents it a little when Field gets on, and at once takes to abusing poor Field, reminding her of all her past mistakes and faults. It made me feel very ill, the more so, as I was being violently eaten by fleas! 
Tuesday, May 23, 1893, Loreto 
Saw Loreto. 
Bernhard made the acquaintance of Signor Gianuzzi and got a good deal of information about Lotto from him. He came with us to Recanati. The keys of the Municipio picture room had to be found, and then of the Chiesa dei Mercanti. All the town rose up in turmoil to find the ‘Canonico’ who had them in his pocket. At last they came, but it was dark. We saw however a splendid Annunciation by candlelight, and then drove back to Loreto by lightning and fire-fly light. White oxen pulled us up the hill.
