Tuesday, August 15, 1893, Hotel de la Hure, Laon
We came here by the morning train, saw the Cathedral, etc., and were eating our dinner when, most untowardly, Mr. and Mrs. Pennell and their sister turned up. 
Bernhard went away by the evening train, and I stayed on and chatted with them on the Boulevard.
Reading Ranke’s Popes and History of England, Corrager’s Gothic Architecture.
* Wednesday, August 16, 1893, Lion d’Or, Reims
Came here by the 7.28 train. Bernhard had merely stayed in the lower town. 
This Cathedral surpasses almost anything we have ever seen. The sculpture is most fascinating; it would be delightful to study it au fond. Some of the figures were thoroughly Roman in build and drapery. Where did they get it? 
Our rooms open straight upon the façade, so in the heat of the day we sat at the windows and studied it through glasses.
* Thursday, August 17, 1893, Hotel de Paris, Nancy
Left at 7. Saw Chalons-sur-Marne in a couple of hours. Discovered a (doubtful) [0408] Bernardino da Mariotto.
 
Came on to Nancy, and saw the Musée, etc. The director, a head guardian, was such a nice man, with lovely eyes. We discovered a Lotto! and a B. Veneto. 
Read Docteur Pascal.
 
In England we read 3 volumes of Ranke’s History of England. I read Philippson’s Contro-Revolution and Rudyard Kipling. Bernhard 〈read〉 Philippson’s Louis XIV and the Apocrypha.
* Friday, August 18, 1893, Pfeiffer, Strassburg
Reached here about 1.30. Went to Museum and discovered 2 Carianis
 and a Beccafumi. Saw the Cathedral. It made an immense impression at first, and then we were disappointed. It is so barbarous compared to those we have been seeing. The Romanesque choir with the cupola, however, we enjoyed. We did not like the façade.
Hot!
Saturday, August 19, 1893, Oberpollinger, Stuttgart
Reached here 12.45. Awfully hot. 
Saw Gallery and were overcome with the badness of the Italian [409] pictures. Did a lot of renaming. 
Wandered about the town. Read Ranke. Wrote letters. 
[MUNICH]
Sunday, August 20, 1893, Hotel Roth, Munich
Gallery again, still rather depressing. Discovered a Cariani
 and 2 Giulio Campis, etc. 
Wandered in the lovely parks. 
Left for Munich at 1.54. Went out at Ulm to see the Cathedral and missed the train. Stopped our luggage by telegram at one of the stations, and had a couple of hours to see the town, before taking a train to rejoin it. 
Reached Munich 10.30.
Monday, August 21, 1893, Munich
Changed rooms. They have no blinds in this hotel and the light enters at 4!
Went to the Gallery, and to hear “Die Walküre” in the evening. Decided that it needs condensing, except the last act. I noticed a “digestion motif” which I think no one has pointed out. It occurs when Sigmund drinks, and represents the bier [sic] gurgling down his throat and rumbling about in his stomach and intestines!
