Wednesday, September 13, 1893, Hotel delle Adiarylpi, Belluno 
Discussing Catulle Mendès
 over our coffee, Bernhard said his French was about as much like real French as patchoulì
 is like oxygen. 
At night he described a pichiri
 as giving you a slice of a man’s world, like a sausage. 
I came by post, 5 hours (4 francs) here, to this enchanting town. They walked to Lengarene, then took a carriage. We found a splendid municipio of 1511 (Tullio Lombardi?) and a fine pre-Palladian church, and doorways, windows, shields, etc., salon. 
Yes, we are really in Italy once more! 
Thursday, September 14, 1893, xx Hotel Belle Vedere [sic], Feltre
A magnificent hotel here, with a grape arbour of Concord grapes from which we may eat à toute heure. 
We are on the track of that mysterious painter “Mat. da Feltre”, but have not got much further. 
I had a chat with some insane women in the Mayhem, through the window of a Sacristy that opened on their garden. The hotel-keeper says most of the patients [0416] have what is called “Polenta madness” coming from a monstrous and not sufficiently nourishing diet of polenta. He said “Their flesh begins to creep away from the skin into their bones, and their brains shrink, and water gathers in the hollow.”
Friday, September 15, 1893, Albergo, Asolo
I finished Moriarty’s Dean Swift.
 
We came to Cornuda and saw the Villa Maser, then on here. 
I have Browning’s room, with a marvelous view. 
Saturday, September 16, 1893, Sant’Antonio, Bassano 
Saw Asolo and discovered a late Lotto! 
Saw Possagno with Canova’s temple, and Crespano, with nothing, and came here. The town strikes us as very squalid. 
Got some flea-powder at last. 
Hapgood is equally tormented with me. 
Sunday, September 17, 1893, Tre Garofani, Vicenza
Horrid hotel but good restaurant. 
Saw the Bassano galleries, reached here at sunset. 
Horrible festa on, and [0417] people shouting all night.
Monday, September 18, 1893, Roma, Cittadella
We have enjoyed Vicenza to the full! 
Walked out to the Villa Valmarana, Rotonda, and Monte Berico. 
Came here in the evening train. 
Tuesday, September 19, 1893, Stella d’Oro, Treviso
Saw Cittadella, Campo San Pierro and Castelfranco. 
Came here and strolled about. 
x Wednesday, September 20, 1893, Europa, Conegliano
“Did” Treviso and came here. 
Saw the Cima collection (documents and manuscripts) in the Municipio and made the acquaintance of the priest who got up the Cima festival. 
[VENICE] 
Thursday, September 21, 1893, 〈Albergo〉 Monaco, Venice
Went to Serravalle and Ceneda, Susegana and Colalto. Such a golden day, none of us had ever seen the like! 
Came here. 
Friday, September 22, 1893, Venice
St. Mark’s, S. Giovanni in Gragora. 
Train. I met Mr. and Mrs. Massingham.
 
Saw the Layards in the afternoon. 
Bernhard called on Mlle Jakowski <Jackowska> and Hapgood and I “gondoled”.
