Sunday, October 1, 1893, Albergo Monaco, Venice
A howling rain storm, water filling the piazza and the ground floor of this hotel. 
Corrected proofs all the morning and went to the Lido to see the waves, when the sun came out in the afternoon. “Fafnir”
 went in to swim. 
Bernhard called on Miss Mercier in the evening. 
Fafnir and I wrote letters. 
Monday, October 2, 1893, Venice
Morning in the Academy. 
Afternoon S. Caterina, S. Mari dell’Orto, S. Alvise.
In the evening I went with Marion and Bernhard and ‘Fafnir’ went together to see Goldoni’s La Famiglia dell’Antiquario. 
* Tuesday, October 3, 1893, Venice
Doge’s Palace. 
Fafnir went at 2. 
Began to read and write furiously after such a long time of talking. 
Put in all our notes. etc. 
Theatre to see Ultima Sera della Carnivale. 
* Wednesday, October 4, 1893, Venice 
Writing, Doge’s Palace, more writing and reading. 
Bernhard is reading Molmenti’s Carpaccio,
 I Horatio Brown’s History of Venice.
 
Mother writes me that Miss Sellers has [0421] become so weary of her selfish life that she has decided to give it up and establish a baby-farm for poor children, with Miss Lowndes and other friends to help her, the “sisters” to wear a uniform, etc.! It is an awful blow, I cannot deny. The only answer we have to make to men who say that they are the only ones who carry on the world’s intellectual life is “O wait till women have a fair chance!” Miss Sellers’ chance has been splendid, but an intellectual life evidently bored her. For the one woman of her generation who perhaps might have become a scholar to give it up and take to an occupation any other woman could perform is a great loss. But who knows how much of it is due to her early Catholic training? A good deal, I suspect. Also it may be in part a diversion of the sexual instinct which seeks satisfaction in a sort of delegated maternity. 
Thursday, October 5, 1893, Venice
Writing and Academy. Visit to Marion. 
Bernhard called on Miss Jackowska. 
Wrote and read. 
Friday, October 6, 1893, Venice
Visited Churches, S. Giovanni in Gragora, S. Francesco della Vigna, and San Zanipolo.
Read and saw at Theatre Goldoni’s “Barufe delle chiozzote”.
 
