Tuesday, October 17, 1893, Croce d’Oro, Padua
Horrors of packing all the morning. Reached here 3.30. Strolled about the town. 
I discovered a Fil. da Verona
 in the Duomo! 
I wrote my Hampton Court <Guide>, and Bernhard read Crowe & Cavalcaselle on Padua in the evening. 
I was not very well. 
Wednesday, October 18, 1893, Croce d’Oro, Padua
Gallery in the morning. 
We went to Pieve
 in the afternoon to see a (ruined) Alvise.
 Found a Tiepolo and a curious Palma-Romanino alter-piece by a certain “Venetus” whose name we could not make out: “Giov. Pen- or Per- silinus”. 
Read Ranke and Mantova e Urbino by Luzio and Renier.
 
Thursday, October 19, 1893, Croce d’Oro, Padua
Bernhard with a cold and diarrhoea and I still unwell from some cause to me incomprehensible. 
We saw the Bishop’s Palace, Duomo, Baptistry and Eremitani in the morning, and drove to Stra in the afternoon (5.50) only to find the reported Tiepolo false. Still the Palace is magnificent. 
I wrote on my Hampton Court <Guide> and Bernhard, lying on the sofa, read all the evening. 
The first day of autumn.
Friday, October 20, 1893, Croce d’Oro, Padua
Bernhard was taken awfully ill in the night with pains, etc., and a cold sweat that made us think [0425] of cholera. I sent for the doctor, who came and found it nothing but a severe cold in the bowels. After his medicine, the pain passed away. 
In spite of his weakness we went to the Santa, the Capella of S. Giorgio, and the Scuole del Santo and Carmine, and after lunch to the Arena Chapel. I am afraid we did not find the “sweep of the brush” so enchanting as we did two years ago, considering that it is mostly very obvious re-paint! What could have got into our eyes?! 
Then we drove (5 francs but we gave him 6) to Praglia,
 an abandoned monastery of the greatest grandeur and beauty. There was cloister upon cloister, with arches supported on beautiful pillars, a dainty little church from Tullio Lombardi’s designs. Magnificent last century stair cases and wood-work, a fresco by Mantegna; in short, a place we would not have missed for anything. 
In the evening, after a pleasant little call from the doctor, I finished Vol. II of Ranke’s Reformation, and did some writing, while Bernhard read his Mantova e Urbino.
