Thursday, November 2, 1893, Brescia, Capello
Missed the train to Medole, so spent a delightful day seeing the churches. 
At S. Clemente we got into a quarrel with the custode and the parroco, and at the end came to mutual vituperation. “Senza Creanza” was the last word hurled at us as we disappeared round the corner.
Bernhard read Il Cortigiano
 and I wrote in the evening. 
Found bianca riviera an excellent white wine. 
Friday, November 3, 1893, Brescia
Spent 2 1/4 hours going to Medole,
 five minutes look at the fine Titian there, and 2 1/4 hours coming back!
I read Modern Painters
 and Bernhard the Cortigiano. 
Found the Café Centrale a good place to eat at, after having been driven from all the other places by overcharges or bad service. This place very cheap, clean, and quiet. 
Went to Paitone
 in the afternoon, and rushed up to the Santuario to see the wonderful Moretto.
 Bernhard had a sort of heart attack from hurrying. 
Dined at cafe. Sussago rosso (vecchio) a splendid red wine.
Wrote an article in the evening about the day’s adventure. 
* Saturday, November 4, 1893, 〈Albergo〉 Roma, Cremona
Saw all the rest of the Churches. 
Came here. Found many letters and the proofs. As usual disquieting news from London, not about the children, but about B.F.C.C.’s hostility. 
“Michael Field’s” play A Question of Memory seems to have been a failure. Logan saw it. Wrote that they revilled [sic] in scenes and incidents which he was [0429] sure Reigate
 could not afford. That is what kills them to be so far from life. 
Sent off my article. 
Sunday, * Monday, Tuesday, November 5-7, 1893,  Cremona, Roma (a continuous fog)
Saw the Churches and pictures as best we could. Felt somewhat depressed. 
Bernhard’s article on Architecture in the Free Review arrived.
Wednesday, November 8, 1893, Croce Bianca, Parma
Came here in a pour. Trailed about and saw things. 
Thursday, November 9, 1893, Parma
Still pouring. 
Saw the Correggios and the Gallery. 
Finished my Hampton Court Guide. 
Bernhard finished Il Cortigiano.
Friday, November 10, 1893, 〈Albergo〉 Pellegrino, Bologna
You are old, Father William, the young man said, 
For your hair has become very thin
And when anything new is presented to view,
You only say ‘Well, I’m agin’ ”
We saw the wonderful Convent Parlour at Parma and came on here in a pouring rain. 
Saturday, November 11, 1893, Bologna
St. Petronio and Giovanni in Monte, in the morning. 
Gallery in the afternoon. 
I wrote a review of Luzio and Renier’s Mantova e Urbino and sent it to the Chronicle. 
Bernhard reading Diderot’s Pensées philosophiques,
 etc. 
Sunday, November 12, 1893, Bologna
Saw the medals, etc., in the Museo Civico, also several churches. 
In the afternoon Bernhard walked to S. Lucca [sic]
 and I wrote my “Assisi” of last year for the Outlook. 
Talked with a girl in the evening named May Jeffrey. 
At the bottom of the page, written upside down:
Wake! For the Sun who scattered into flight
The Stars before him on the Field of Night.
