x Monday, November 13, 1893, Pellegrino, Bologna
Churches in the morning and Gallery in the afternoon. 
Sent off my article on Assisi. 
Bernhard read The League of Youth.
 
[FLORENCE]
* Tuesday, November 14, 1893, 12
 Lungarno Acciajuoli, Florence
Robertson’s analysis of Gladstone in the Free Review seems to resolve itself into the conclusion that he honestly believed dishonesty to be the best policy.
We saw some more churches in Bologna and came here. 
It was quite a festa when our old waiters and the oysterman at the Toscana saw us. 
My rooms have been changed and they want a great increase of rent. I liked them in some ways better as they were. 
Wednesday, November 14, 1893, 12 Lungarno Acciajuoli, Florence
Hunted for other rooms, but could find none. 
Went to Santa Croce. 
Came back, took these rooms, and installed myself. 
Thursday, November 16, 1893, Florence
Bernhard has gone away very cross and highly disgusted, because I refuse to make peace with him after a perfectly unwarrantable outburst of temper at me because I waited a moment to arrange my papers before getting another lamp when the first grew dim. I do not feel particularly angry, but I must find a way of preventing his using that brutal tone towards me without regret. He said he did not know what it was to apologize, and that being so, he must learn not to indulge in outbreaks of temper which require apology. Of course I know a momentary fit of temper isn’t the worst thing in the world, but it is only too easy for men to excuse themselves for such brutalities, and Bernhard is no exception. [0431] What he does in private he very s〈eld〉om does in public, as both the Michaels and Maude noticed last summer. There is absolutely no use in letting it go on. Of course if after such an outbreak he should say, “Forgive me for being so rough. I did not notice you were busy,” I could not hold out. But instead he blames me for being silent, calls me unsociable, complains of my beastly temper and goes off in a huff. Naturally, all this makes it more than easy for me to hold to my plan of showing displeasure when he is brutally rude!
Today has been spent in getting settled. 
Bernhard read Guy Mannering.
If he will suggest to me some method of curing him of this bad habit of anger, something less painful (for I am going to bed very unhappy), I shall gladly try it. 
Friday and Saturday, November 17-18, 1893, Florence 
Quite rainy days of reading and writing. 
Went to Uffizi. 
Reading Dante, Graf’s Attraverso il Cinquecento,
 and Ruskin. 
Bernhard reading Dante and Vasari. 
I began an article on the new Morelli translation.
 
Sunday, November 19, 1893, Florence 
Ray said she got mixed up with all the people she had to name. “There’s father, that’s one; Miss Clare, two; Mary, 3; Grandma Smith, 4; Grandma Costelloe, 5; Karin, 6.” “But which does thee love the best?” Without a moment’s hesitation she said, “The one that begins with M.” Then turning to Karin, “That’s Mother, you know.” The darling! 
Received [0432] Michael Field’s “revised and decreased” “Book of Tears”,
 also letters saying no poet had been so abused since Shelley, and that she could only compare herself to St. John on Patmos when she saw her Play acted. She seems to think it was a great success! The only person who does. 
Sent off my review of Morelli to the Chronicle.
Bernhard met Vernon Lee at the Academy. I called on Miss Jeffrey. 
Finished Vol. IV of Modern Painters,
 a horrid mixture of Theology and Geology. Bernhard is reading Scott’s Old Mortality.
Monday, November 20, 1893, Florence 
Not well, alas! Did nothing, saw nothing, read nothing. 
Tuesday, November 21, 1893, Florence 
Miss Jeffrey came to lunch, and I took her to S. Lorenzo. She is engaged to a Norwegian writer named Landsem. She was furious when she learned that she would lose her nationality upon being married! 
Michael wrote that she had “black drops at the heart” and congratulated me on being “Our Lady of Prose — for a poet’s heart at best is a healthy wound” — a vain poeticule, that is!
Bernhard lunched at Vernon Lee’s. She “lies in his hand as tame as a pear hung basking over the wall,” but he liked her much more when she disputed his opinions instead of swallowing them wholesale. 
