Friday, September 〈11〉 , 1891, Hotel Colomba d’Oro, Verona
Went to San Niccolo, Santa Maria della Scala, San Nazaro e Celso, Santa Maria in Paradiso, San Tommaso, San Fermo, San Paolo in the morning. Enjoyed especially the Montagnas in San Nazaro and the Buonsignori and Paolo Veronese in San Paolo.
In the afternoon in Santa Maria del Organo, where I recognized the Savoldo, to my delight, and where B. began to shake off the trail of his travels among German galleries and to enjoy the Veronese themselves. 
He wrote to Prof. Bôcher:
 “… In Italy the pictures must be looked at in their frames, for as painting merely they are sometimes not worthwhile. At any rate that was my first impression in the gallery yesterday. Most of [118] pictures looked ruined and repainted and a trifle provincial into the bargain. The fact is one wants a pair of fresh eyes for every school of painting, that is one reason why it is so hard to get to know Italian pictures in Transalpine Galleries. There the temptation is overwhelming to study all the school at once, and through spectacles fit for none. In Verona, you are confined to one School. Before you can appreciate the pictures here, you must be penetrated with the feeling that you are in Verona and nowhere else. You must realize the biological necessity for the painters to paint precisely as they have done. Perhaps it may sound strange to speak of biological necessity in connection with anything like the fine arts. But as far as I know [119] all art criticism tries to account for what man does in the arts, just as the zoologists account for beavers building dams, or birds building nests. Only criticism continually contradicts itself. It exists because it claims to be able to reduce the phenomena of the arts to general categories, yet it puts up the dogma that caprice is perhaps all there is in genius.”
* Sunset in the Giardino Giusti. 
Saturday, September 12, 1891, Hotel Colombo [sic] d’Oro, Verona
Went to Santa Trinita and saw frescoes by Brusasorci.
 
Then to San Bernardino, where I was overcome by such a feeling of illness that I had to come back, and lie down all the rest of the day with diarrhea and nettle-rash. 
I read Mrs. Green’s Henry II.
 B. studied his “bibles” very conscientiously. 
