Sunday, September 27, 1891, Hotel Monaco, Venice
I arrived from Florence at 11.30 last night. 
This morning we met Costa and went to the Correr. 
After lunch B. and I went to the Giovanelli palace and saw the pictures. Then I went to sleep while B. and Costa went to the Lido and took a long walk, discussing pictures – among other matters, the influence of Dürer upon Lotto. 
B. and I talked much all day about Gertrude Burton with whom I stayed in Florence. 
Monday, September 28, 1891, Hotel Monaco, Venice
Went to S. Maria Mater Domini (Catena, Tintoretto), St. Casiano (Tintoretto), S. Giovanni Elimosinario (Pordenone, Titian) in the morning. 
After luncheon joined Costa at the Accademia, and when that closed went to Murano and saw the cathedral and another church there, and came back at sunset. 
The picture I enjoyed the most was the one Titian painted when he was 99. It was not quite finished by him, but there is enough left. The Tintorettos, too, were very enjoyable. 
B. began to read Ruskin. It puts [127] him in a rage. Indeed it is quite impossible to see why he is said to have a good style. 
Tuesday, September 29, 1891, Venice
Met Costa at the Salute at 9. Then to the Redentore. Canon Farrar
 was at the Salute reading there to an admiring group. 
After that we went to San Sebastiano and then to the Carmine.
In the afternoon we met Costa again at the Scuola di San Rocco and spent several hours there enraging ourselves over Ruskin’s astonishing criticisms. Then to the Church of San Rocco, and then we had a beautiful hour at sunset in the Giudecca. 
Wednesday, September 30, 1891, Venice
Met Costa at San Giorgio in Bragora and then went to San Francesco della Vigna, San Antonio and San Giovanni e Polo. 
Immediately after lunch we started in a [128] gondola with Costa and his brother to Torcello, which was enchanting, and to Burano, where we had great fun with the children. The boatmen lost the way coming home so that we were rather late. 
Thursday, October 1, 1891, Hotel Murano, Venice
I was tired, and unhappy. 
B. went alone to the Correr, with Costa. 
In the afternoon I had a swim in the Lagoon and we went to S. Giorgio Maggiore. What magnificent architecture! And Ruskin says it “is not worth a moment’s notice”! 
We read Villiers de l’Isle Adam, Nouveaux Contes Cruels
 and La Révolte, also a Russian Priest by Potapenko.
 
B. went to the Piazza and met Costa who had an article by Claude Phillipps on Morelli, good in manner but poor in matter. 
X X X 
[three large X’s set in rectangles at the bottom of the page: marking the end of a section?]
