Tuesday, January 17, 1893, Florence
Uffizi. Opera del Duomo. Looked at photos. 
B. reading Voltaire and Tristram Shandy,
 I at Vol. II of Ranke and my German lesson. 
Wednesday, January 18, 1893, Florence
Began our paper on Lotto, studied chronologically. 
Bernhard went to see Vernon Lee, and I went to see Mrs. James, who was so nice and sympathetic, as soon as she found out that I was not a Catholic. 
Sent “Solness” to Evening Post and Women’s Herald.
 
* Thursday, January 19, 1893, Florence
Still at work on our Lotto. It becomes very interesting. 
Bernhard walked alone, as I felt tired. 
Read Ranke, etc. 
Friday, January 20, 1893, Florence
Worked on Lotto. Bernhard called on Loeser, I on Miss Britten. 
Prof. James called, and was most amusing. He said he thought Vernon Lee’s Bellerophon
 was so “full of genius”. He hadn’t the faintest idea what Euphorion
 meant, and as to studying Italian [0344] history “historically”, that is to say, in connection with contemporary European history, he seemed quite electrified at the suggestion! 
We were quite excited over a letter of Stillman’s in the last Nation, replying to one of Bernhard’s which we had sent from Venice in the autumn, correcting one of his many mis-statements. 
Bernhard had a headache in the evening. 
Saturday, January 21, 1893, Florence
My rugs arrived. They look very nice. 
I was unwell, so we dined at home. 
We worked upon our Lotto all day long except while Bernhard walked from the Bagni di Ripoli along the river. 
I had a letter from mother in which she said that Ray believes I do not love her because “Nana says so”, but that she loves me. How cruel it is! Frank cannot love her half, half so much as I do, though why I scarcely know. It is an [0345] instinct almost as imperative as hunger, except that I can control it. 
But I do love her so. If she could only know how I prize every hair of her head and ever〈y〉 inch of her skin, particularly where her dear little bones peep all through the thinness! But perhaps she would not, if she knew, care much for that kind of love, and she would be right, for it is not personal. Still, it would lead me to do anything I could for her, except give up my own personality and my own chances, or to harm Bernhard in any way. But I do love her so! My heart aches so for the sight of her, and the feel of her. 
I was wrong when I said we worked on Lotto all day. We spent the morning answering Stillman, and I think our answer was really crushing. We said that the error confusing Domenico and Jacopo Tintoretto showed that a man was about as fit for writing of Italian art as a man who mixed up Julian and Nathaniel Hawthorne would be for writing about American literature!!
